https://www.debate.org/debates/The-atomic-bomb-should-have-been-dropped-on-Japan./1/

TITLE: The atomic bomb should have been dropped on Japan.

CATEGORY: Society

I'm Sorry I was very busy for the last round . But to continue my argument....
 
 Although it is true that there may have been some rebels and some people may have been against Japan, they could have gone to a neighboring country. Not only this but the majority of the people agreed with the emperor. Therefore the small group of rebels wouldn't be able to make a difference. If they really wanted to make a difference they could have joined the U.S. Army or secretly have helped the United States. In addition, Japan was the country who had dragged The United States into World War 2. The United States was being neutral and simply stopped trading with Japan because they found Japan a threat to democracy. Other than that Japan did not have any reason to bring America into war. The bomb may not have been as strong as the atomic bombs dropped in but the way the Japanese planned it was. They dropped it on Pearl Harbor on a Sunday in the morning when many people were at church or were resting. This maximized the impact of the bomb on Pearl Harbor. In addition, the bomb was dropped near Christmas time which is one of the biggest holidays for Americans. The loss of many innocent lives and property was a really negative thing even though Christmas is supposed to be a happy time. Also as you stated that they may have taken the warnings as a joke, nothing is a joke when it comes to war. In war everything is to be taken seriously and any warning, threat, or plan could be crucial to winning or preventing further loss. If the Japanese didn't take it seriously, it was their loss. They may have damaged the earth but war damages the earth too. This is because the blood and dead bodies may impact some plants and/or animals negatively. Since they bombed the two biggest cities in Japan, they must have been advanced so they may have already been lacking a very diverse ecosystem. Thus, the atomic bomb should have been dropped.
 
 The evidence you asked for:-
 (1)  http://en.wikipedia.org...