https://www.debate.org/debates/Are-Sustainable-Cities-Possible/1/

TITLE: Are Sustainable Cities Possible?

CATEGORY: Science

Best of Luck!
 
 Intro -
 What exactly are Sustainable Cities? Let's break it down into "Sustainable" and "Cities". Sustainability is the endurance of systems and processes. Thus, a Sustainable City By Definition is a city that has modified itself to prevent affecting the environment around them and in which the individual learns to reduce Carbon Dioxide Emissions, plant more trees and use renewable forms of energies for daily activities.
 ---------
 
 The Earth was formed approximately 4.5 billion years ago and humans arrived roughly 140 thousand years ago. We started out small as individual tribes and groups. Today, however the population has skyrocketed to a whopping 7.4 billion individuals. The surprising thing to be noted is that most of these 7.4 billion individuals live in 4% of land area called cities or metropolitan urban areas.
 
 Even so, you must have wondered why exactly do we need Sustainable Cities?
 Why not continue the lavish lives we already lead in the cities we have today?
 
 That is because the cities we have today have have multiple problems:
 1 ) Take a look at waste management. It is no doubt that managing our waste is a serious problem. In the United Arab Emirates alone, a single person produces 750 kilograms of waste which is one of the highest in the world.In 2007, Americans threw out about 570 billion pounds of municipal solid waste. Compared to other nations, the United States has a record of generating waste at an alarming rate. Home to only 4% of the global population, they are responsible for more than 30% of the planet"s total waste generation. Each American discards an average of more than 1,650 pounds of garbage every year.
 2) The air in the cities are also not appreciable because of the 700 million vehicles in the world and industries. Our personal vehicles are a major cause of global warming. Collectively, cars and trucks account for nearly one-fifth of all U.S. emissions, emitting around 24 pounds of carbon dioxide and other global-warming gases for every gallon of gas. About 5 pounds comes from the extraction, production, and delivery of the fuel.
 3) Also, at this stage at least cities do not produce their own food. Food is almost always imported from elsewhere. These problems are really not issues in sustainable cities.
 
 Sustainable cities on the other hand, have no such problems. Waste in sustainable cities is segregated and then recycle or bio degraded. There are almost no cars running on petroleum in the first place in these cities. The last one about food can be resolved by saying that sustainable cities will grow their own food. They will have structures like vertical farms which grow grains. For more info -  https://en.wikipedia.org... 
 
 Now that we have a clear understanding of what a sustainable city is and what it could do to help our Planet, we can take a look at real models of sustainable cities that are there today. As an example you can take the Vauban District of Freiburg in South Germany. The district was planned around green transportation, because besides consumption, transportation is the hardest ecological impact of development to reduce. While the district includes streets, cars hardly ever pass through. All buildings must meet minimum low energy consumption standards of 65 kWh/m^2 a.
 
 In Spain, the eco-city of Vitoria-Gasteiz implemented a strategic sustainable development plan and claims to be a "leading player in relation to sustainability," according the city"s website. Vitoria-Gasteiz intermingled patches of forest, called green belts, into the city to provide natural habitats for animals, air pollution scrubbing from plants and recreational areas for the local residents. The upgraded public transportation system helped reduce the carbon footprint of the population, allowing more residents to live in the urban areas. The city"s policy on mixed land usage and high density development along the main transportation routes helped to reduce travel times for goods and services, further reducing fuel consumption.
 
 These two are just a few of the hundreds of aspiring Sustainable Cities.
 
 So, the question that Sustainable cities are possible or not? Yes, it surely is. I mean its already been proven. All it will take is a little support from the international governments and organisations and a little bit of help from the locals.
 
 _______
 
 Sources :
 
  http://www.worldometers.info... 
  https://en.wikipedia.org... 
  http://www.bbc.co.uk... 
  http://environment.nationalgeographic.com... 
  http://www.toxicsaction.org... 
  http://www.ucsusa.org... 
  http://www.sustainabledevelopmentinfo.com... 
 
 Thanks and best of luck to you again!