https://www.debate.org/debates/President-Bush-supporters-should-be-treated-badly./1/

TITLE: President Bush supporters should be treated badly.

CATEGORY: Politics

Of course. Same to you as well.
 
 If it's as real as you say, I'd love some examples of said teasing or bashing. I honestly haven't seen much of this.
 
 How is the president in charge of defining political substance? He has absolutely no power or authority over anything of the sort.
 
 I am and was fully aware of what the topic is, I may just have worded my arguments so that they were hard to understand, which I'm genuinely sorry for. I did, however, fully address why they should be treated how they are.
 
 Read this over a few times so you better understand it. "As Americans, we're destined to bring out the bad parts of anyone, especially political candidtates, to make them look worse in the eyes of the general voter. However, if someone knew the facts and did research themselves, they'd know for themselves the upsides and downsides of anyone, and it's these negative comments that spur this interest to know more about any given person. Without some of these harsh statements, no matter how harsh, America could be even blinder than what we are today. And the truth is that anyone who took the time and effort to look into what he's done, they'd realize how much of an--excuse my language--dumbass he is. People who refuse to do so should be treated badly for being a blind voter, a blind follower, and better yet, they should be convinced to find out more information before blindly giving money and kind words to a person such as George W. Bush."
 
 I honestly don't know how to make "people who refuse to do so should be treated badly for being a blind voter, a blind follower, and better yet, they should be convinced to find out more information before blindly giving money and kind words to a person such as George W. Bush." any clearer than what it already is...
 
 In response to the Bill O'Reilly thing, I'd like to say three things.
 
 1. Bill O'Reilly supports Bush, and thus is a Bush supporter. The quote you used was partially used out of context since he was just describing how creepily similar (in his eyes, which are blind to the obvious). The red meat thing and the other things one could normally qualify as being insulting were simply his normal language.
 
 2. Here's a video clip of him defending Bush:  http://video.aol.com... 
 
 3. I hardly think that Bill O'Reilly is a valid person to prove your point. He makes fun of just about everyone if they have a hint of not agreeing with him on any point whatsoever. We're debating whether or not people should make fun of Bush supporters, not any supporters of political candidates or people who hold office in general.
 
 Bush supporters feel sorry for themselves.