https://www.debate.org/debates/Lacto-vegetarians-and-Ovo-vegetarian-cause-animal-cruelty-thus-are-animal-abusers./1/

TITLE: Lacto-vegetarians and Ovo-vegetarian cause animal cruelty thus are animal abusers.

CATEGORY: Society

First off, all of your sources are from bias websites that support your opinion. Either way I still feel you are wrong.
 
 I would even argue that people who straight up eat meat are not causing animal cruelty and are not animal abusers.
 
 You reference "forcefully impregnating cows"( which I am assuming you are dropping into the "rape" category of your animal cruelty definition) is a weak argument. It is well known that cows do not have sex for pleasure. This method of impregnating them is for their own benefit. Cows are a domesticated animal, meaning they are bred to have the characteristics that we desire. This domestication has caused some complications. One of them being that they hurt themselves during sex. This artificial impregnation method is done to not hurt the cow and actually protect them from themselves.
 
 Your definition of cruelty to animals... "is the human infliction of suffering or harm upon any non-human animal, for purposes other than self-defense or survival". I argue that since the dairy and meat industry is a large part of our food procurement system as a society, its purpose is for survival. Maybe not for the individual, but is for our culture as a whole. That being said, your definition disproves your point.
 
 Someone who buys eggs at the grocery store who is looking for the best deal is not doing so because they have a choice. That is what is available and they must feed their family. Most Americans have grown up and are acculturated to see eggs as a needed food source. Because of this they cannot see how other foods will provide the same nourishment. On top of that, because of their low paying jobs, they cannot afford the "farm raised" eggs that make you a good person all of a sudden.
 
 Your whole argument is based on ignorance and the choice to view bias media sources that are trying to get your views for advertising money.