https://www.debate.org/debates/Should-Child-Porn-Be-Legal/1/

TITLE: Should "Child Porn" Be Legal?

CATEGORY: Politics

The only reason you provided as to why child porn should be legal is because people will stumble upon illegal child porn anyway. You said it would be better if it was legal and regulated but you didn't give any reasons why that is.
 
 You mentioned that people can accidentally find an illegal child porn site. True, there's all sorts of vile things on the internet that we don't want to see but that's hardly a problem. I can assure you nobody's life is going to be ruined just because they see something they didn't want to see. A reasonable person will simply close the website the second they see child person. So basically this not even close to being a reason why child porn should be legalised.
 
 The child. Honestly I'm astonished that you didn't even mention anything about the child. First off no child will voluntarily want to participate in something like porn. The vast majority of victims of child porn are forced into doing so by manipulation.  http://www.popcenter.org... 
 Almost all of the victims reported various health concerns. Physical such as pain in the genital area. Somatic such as insomnia and loss of appetite and psychological such as depression and anxiety.
 
 Child porn is clearly connected to pedophilia. If you want to legalise child porn then you also have to legalise pedophilia. The reason why pedophilia is illegal is because children are incapable of making sexual decisions for themselves. In other words children are persuaded (read: manipulated) into having sex. That is rape. So the circle brings us to the conclusion that for child porn to be legalised you would also have to legalise rape and rape is an assault.
 
 Child porn promotes child abuse. According to different sources about 70% of child porn offenders have been convicted of child abuse. It also promotes sexual intent that otherwise wouldn't exist.
  https://en.wikipedia.org... 
 
 Why is the limit 2000 words?