https://www.debate.org/debates/should-we-allow-people-to-carry-oil-and-drill-for-it-on-the-ocean./1/

TITLE: should we allow people to carry oil and drill for it on the ocean.

CATEGORY: Science

Rebuttal  
 
 "I said "possible" drinking water and if you have not watch news there are machines that filter out all the salt and parasites and makes drinking water but it does cost a lot of money."
 
 Yes, I am aware. My rebuttal still holds true.
 
 "Water collects electricity so if lightning strikes [an] oil spill or drilled oil it will cause an explosion and a fire."
 
 First, I will discuss oil that isn't spilled. Lightning strikes can be prevented. Instead of banning the drilling of oil, we could just put slightly more money towards lightning prevention, which would have a much better result at less the cost to society. "What it comes down to largely is risk tolerance. For example, in 2008 a storage tank holding 1.2 million gallons of unleaded gasoline was struck by lightning in Kansas City. The tank, either unprotected or ineffectively protected, caught fire, resulting in hard cost losses estimated at $12 million once accounting for the lost product in the tank, the tank itself, extinguishing the fire, and facility downtime. No one had thought, or their risk tolerance wasn't low enough, to completely protect the tank from lightning, a solution that would have cost less than $30,000 in total – on a one-time basis." I got this quote from this source:  http://www.ogfj.com...  Therefore, stored oil can be kept safe from lightning strikes.
 
 Now let's talk about lightning igniting spilled oil. I looked for examples of this in real life, but as far as I know, it doesn't occur often. It isn't a prevalent problem. I would like Con to give as many real life examples recorded in history of lightning causing an oil spill to catch fire/explode. The only thing I was able to find was lightning causing an oil spill, and not actually exploding/igniting an oil spill.
 
 Please explain the benefits of not allowing people to carry oil and drill it on the ocean and do a cross comparison with the losses of said action. You must prove that the benefits outweigh the loss.
 
 Thank you and good luck.