https://www.debate.org/debates/Should-transgender-people-be-allowed-into-positions-of-power-Politician-Teacher-Police-Officer/1/

TITLE: Should transgender people be allowed into positions of power? (Politician, Teacher, Police Officer)

CATEGORY: Society

I apologize for not giving a clear enough statement or introduction argument for this debate. I am very new to this website and so far it seems as though everyone has been doing the same layout.
 
 As for the definition that was meant (which was completely my fault), I did not mean the textbook definition of transgenders. Instead, I meant a male or female that is now the opposite gender through a sex change. To give an example: A man who has transitioned into being a female decides he/she wants to be a police officer (or any other example of positions of power I gave), should they be allowed to do so?
 
 Now, on to my case/argument. Which is now existent ;)
 
 Transgender people (by that I mean my example, since I will be referring to that for the rest of the debate) should not be allowed into these sorts of positions due to the ever increasing mental health issues as a community and individuals.
 
 "A study from Boston published earlier this year in the Journal of Adolescent Health, reported that 180 transsexual youth (106 female-to-male; 74 male-to-female) had a two-fold to three-fold increased risk of psychiatric disorders, including depression, anxiety disorder, suicidal ideation, suicide attempt, self-harm without lethal intent, and both inpatient and outpatient mental health treatment compared to a control group of youth."
 
 Now, of course, this may not seem so staggering as it does not relate to adults, thus not relating to the debate. But how come such a large percentage of a group that (according to my opponent) should be in power have such a large chance of suicide, depression, anxiety disorder and more. That puts a high risk for people who are under the power of these people. If that's not enough, then here is this bit of info:
 
 "The prevalence of suicide attempts among respondents to the National Transgender Discrimination Survey (NTDS), conducted by the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force and National Center for Transgender Equality, is 41 percent, which vastly exceeds the 4.6 percent of the overall U.S. population who report a lifetime suicide attempt, and is also higher than the 10-20 percent of lesbian, gay and bisexual adults who report ever attempting suicide."
 
 This is clearly something that should conflict with people of this community being in positions where they help youth, help the community, and most importantly help the innocent from attackers or themselves. How is a transgender person supposed to do these things when they can't even protect themselves? The truth is; they can't. If they want to be in high positions of power they should make these numbers significantly drop before doing so.
 
 SOURCE(S):
  https://www.mercatornet.com...