https://www.debate.org/debates/George-W.-Bush-is-probably-the-worst-President-of-all-Time./1/

TITLE: George W. Bush is probably the worst President of all Time.

CATEGORY: Politics

The first person that took this debate wasted many peoples time by not responding to the debate. Hopefully the next person to take the debate seriously thank yo
 
 I would like to thank the person who debates me in this issue for taking their position and providing me with a chance to compare ideas. I would like to also thank the many people I know will be adding their comments and eventually voting. I simply ask if you are going to bad talk president Bush please do so humanely (this is a family friendly debate =) .
 
 I will like to keep the first topic concise so I can see where my opponent wants to take the debate. In this debate I will give a few reasons why I believe that President Bush is among the worst presidents of all times.
 
 I. He has been classified as a conservative and has claimed to run as one despite the fact that he is far from conservative.
 
 a. Fiscally he has increased government spending to almost three times as much as president Clinton who is suppose to be the more Liberal President.
 
 b. Government size, he has increased the role of government during his presidency with the Patriot Act and many other sister bills that have increased the role of the government and the lost of constitutionally protected freedom.
 
 II. Bush has been held high by "Republicans" as being someone strong on the war on terror. This hits home with me because I currently serve in the military and his military based decisions directly effect me.
 
 a. He has fought a poor war. (I am for War in Iraq and eliminating forces quickly). But it seems that we linger around in Iraq to keep the contractors earning money. We could have march through Iraq if we fought this like a real war.
 
 B. President Bush is for an open border which will allow terrorist and other individuals that mean the United States harm free access to our country and the social programs we have.
 
 III. He is not the most articulate president. This is not that big a deal but when people see the leader of one of the most powerful countries having a hard time getting through a speech it is really a testament to how poor our educational system is. Especially when President Bush advocates that immigrants learn English first. Click the following link to see our president in action.
 
 I do not hate the man nor do I feel he is pure evil like many do, I simply feel that through what he has promised as compared to what he has delivered he is in the category of worst three presidents of all time.