https://www.debate.org/debates/Cure-for-Cancer/1/

TITLE: Cure for Cancer

CATEGORY: Science

"Cancer can be cured; masses of compressed tissue can be decompressed part by part, and the tumor can be removed safely."--Pro
 "Though Con may be correct in writing that dangerous fluids may spread further disease, the method I've outlined is lightweight and fluids can be controlled in the curing process. If fluid control is deemed too difficult, then a more apt surgeon is required, not a new technique for removing tumors."--Pro
  These two quotes demonstrate the crux of the pro's misunderstanding.
 
 The first quote is basically a description of surgical removal but adding another step of 'decompressing' the tissue (what exactly does that mean?). 
 The second quote shows my opponent still misunderstands the nature of cancer. The danger of cancer comes wholely from the unrestrained cell growth of cancer cells. The unrestrained growth creates masses of tissue that can damage organs, nerves, blood vessels, and so on. Most insidiously if cancer cells break away from the mass of tissue they can travel through the bloodstream to other parts of the body and grow new tumors. As far as I can tell cancerous tumors do not have any fluid to remove, benign or toxic. Since this is a major point in the pro's argument it must be cited that cancerous tumors contain fluid more often than not, and that is a problem that need solving for surgical removal.
 
 To actually cure cancer it isn't enough to simply remove a tumor; any cancer cells that may have broken away from the tumor and spread also have to be destroyed. Modern surgery can already surgically remove a tumor; the pro has not shown the 'pressure, quiver, and unthread' technique has benefits over modern techniques of surgical tumor removal, or that it even works at all.
 
  "If not a direct cure for cancer, the method of my argument can be used to replace radiation therapy with a greater success rate."--Pro
  My opponent has yet to prove the efficacy of the method being argued so this statement is entirely unqualified. Furthermore the pro has yet to address cancer cells that have spread away from the tumor. Radiation and Chemotherapy are used to kill these stray cancer cells to make it less likely for cancer to return. It's practically impossible to detect the cells until another tumor has formed from them so a manual technique is out of the question. 
 
 My opponent still makes grand claims for their 'pressure, quiver, and unthread' technique but has yet to back up those claims with any hard evidence. Further they have not provided any solution to cancer cells that have spread beyond the initial tumor and continue discussing 'dangerous fluids' which the pro has yet to prove is actually a problem with cancerous tumors. Any claims of a cure for cancer must be effective against cells that have spread away from the tumor, and indeed it seems the pro's method has no mechanism to handle those cells. 
 Due to continued unsupported claims and a method which ignores the very nature of cancer and lacks even a theoretical mechanism to deal with it entirely, the resolution continues to fail.
 