https://www.debate.org/debates/Americans-have-a-right-to-own-firearms/1/

TITLE: Americans have a right to own firearms

CATEGORY: Society

Indeed a real combat..that one should defend himself or herself is quite a good thing but not at the expense of your life..you said we are the people that should scare thieves, with what if i may ask? Is it with the firearms? Indeed that is certainly impossible because if 7thieves where to attack your house, with your children sleeping, can you kill all? Will you even know when they will come in? Indeed if you even raise your head they will blow it off. Or what you are trying to say is that 1 is stronger than 7? If Americans should carry firearms, then even thieves will be given firearms also and besides, since they have noticed you you have firearm,what makes you think they won't blow your house immediately? Indeed the work of the police is to regulate this crimes and we have patrol team who will take care of this crimes.you equally raised the issue of a big man trying to kidnap a younglady of about 25..ponder on this, do you think the man will come alone? Do you think he won't be armed? Indeed if Americans should be allowed to carry firearms it means the man will equally carry his arm and more arms which he will use in executing his plans..allowing Americans to carry firearms will even make criminals to be strong and patrol in large number. The big man in question, will kill the lady if the lady draws any arms thank God you said big man..that exactly draws me to my stand in this argument, 'the security of Americans should be tight and Americans should not be allowed to carry firearms' indeed if the security of Americans are tight, they can defend the the state and Americans should not be allowed to carry firearms because they will harm even close relations in event like fight. This also draws me to what you said about the police not showing in event of crime, indeed if police don't show, then it is the work of the government to strenghten their government and not citizens protecting theirselves in abnormal way..moreover, you talked of ladies been raped and murdered that if they were with firearms, they would have protected themselves, now if a gang of armed robbers of about 6 were to attack a young lady of 23years, will she defend her self with that small pistol? Indeed what she should do is just to alert the police and not trying to risk her life..indeed, American should never be allowed to own firearms because they might even harm the military in event of problem..