https://www.debate.org/debates/Global-warming-in-not-a-ridiculous-theory/1/

TITLE: Global warming in not a ridiculous theory

CATEGORY: Science

It *is* a ridiculous theory made up by a ridiculous, washed up vice president who is wanting nothing more than the public's ridiculous fear of it because it gives him a face in a society that had almost let him fade out of their memories (heaven forbid that should happen!). Economic interests have nothing to do with that. The public is believing the lie of an old, hypocritical man. His own home emits 10 times the carbon emmissions as your average household. That's all overlooked though as soon as he says, " I planted 10 trees so that makes up for it." There is no sciece backing him up- none. The only scientists agreeing with him are biologists and zoologists who study what? ANIMALS! Not the atmosphere or even the enviroment for that matter, but A-N-I-M-A-L-S! They can't offer any sort of credibility to the subject other than saying,"Oh, the animal I'm studying has been sweating a lot more within the past 2 years." OMG Let us all panic and scream that the end is nigh because an animal is sweating more than usual!
 
 Don't get me wrong- I think it's absolutely wonderful the public has become more enviromentally aware than ever. It's a great thing to be taking better care of what makes our lives on earth possible. Also, becoming more energy efficient is doing wonders for the economy and saving people tons of money as well as bettering the enviroment in which we make our homes. However, a washed up politian shouldn't be scaring the public into doing it so that he can have more power and more money. By believing his lie the American public has Al Gore and his cohorts on a pedastal of fame they never deserved. Someone who can't even recognize who his past presidents are should never be allowed to be awarded a Nobel Peace Prize and yet we handed it to him on a silver platter and said, "Thank you for showing us the light Almighty One."
 
 Like I said- RIDICULOUS.