https://www.debate.org/debates/Current-US-Foreign-Policy-in-the-Middle-East-Threatens-our-National-Security/1/

TITLE: Current US Foreign Policy in the Middle East Threatens our National Security

CATEGORY: Society

My partner and I affirm the resolution resolved: current US foreign policy in the Middle Easta undermines our national security. I would like to begin by defining several key terms in this debate. Just as a note for Current US foreign policy: the pro would like to point out that since we are discussing current US foreign policy, only examples and policies still withstanding after President Barack Obama took office in 2008 are applicable in this debate. The Middle East, as outlined by the State Department in 1958 includes 19 countries, but does NOT include Afghanistan, Pakistan, Turkey, or Sudan.
 The Merriam-Webster dictionary defines undermine as "to weaken or ruin by degrees."
 Finally, National Security. The clearest definition of this term was offered by former Secretary of Defense Harold Brown. National security, by his definition, is the ability to a) preserve the nation's physical integrity and territory; b) to maintain its economic relations with the rest of the world on reasonable terms; and c) to preserve its nature, institution, and governance from disruption from outside. This definition is also endorsed by the Department of Defense"s current website.
 
 Contention one: Current US foreign policy threatens our ability to preserve our physical integrity and territory. According to the report "Influence of the United States on International Law", written by General Mclaughlin
 United States territory is any extent of region under the jurisdiction of the federal government of the United States. This extent of territory is all the area belonging to the United States federal government (which includes tracts lying at a distance from the country).
 Under this definition, international territory such as diplomatic embassies, US Naval ships, and military bases are all part of the United State"s physical territory. That being said, the current US foreign policy threatens our ability to preserve this territory.
 Since Obama took office in 2008, there have been 5 attacks on US diplomatic facilities in the Middle East. According to a March 2011 Washington Post Article, there have only been a total of 26 attacks on US diplomatic facilities in the history of the United States. That means roughly a 20% of these attacks occurred in the last couple years. Total, an approximate 50 people have died in just these attacks.
 In the latest attack in Cairo, Benghazi, and Sana'a, 18 people died as protestors as well as terrorists attacked and mobbed embassies across the Middle East. This incident occurred on September 11, 2012, timed to coincide with the anniversary of the 9/11 attacks, killing U.S. Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens. Only 5 other diplomats have died in terrorist attacks, the last one to be killed having died 33 years ago. It is obvious that the US has lost its ability to preserve its physical integrity and territory.
 Contention two: Current US foreign policy threatens our ability to maintain economic relations with the rest of the world on reasonable terms.
 According to Harvard Economics Professor Robert C. Waggoner, a primary source of concern in economic policy is the attitude of the people. The government represents the will of the people, and the current US foreign policy is incenting many in the Middle East.According to the Arab American Institute, a 2006 5 nation poll revealed the following.
 
 Overall Arab attitudes toward U.S. have worsened; negative attitudes have hardened
 Attitudes toward American values, people and culture have declined as well
 Another more recent poll from the same source has shown that the overall favorable ratings towards the US have declined in the last two years. Attitudes toward American values, people, and products remain mostly favorable, but have also declined in the past two years.
 US policy is the major factor that accounts for the low US favorable ratings and the decline in these ratings.
 This isn"t coming from me. Its not from the government. It comes from the people of the Middle East. The current US foreign policy is lowering US support in the Middle East. This in turn leads to a lowering of economic relations between the US and middle eastern countries.
 Contention three: Current US foreign policy threatens our ability to preserve our nature, institution, and governance from disruption from outside
 According to Amnesty International
 Governments in the Middle East use a wide range of repressive measures to suppress freedom of expression and other legitimate activities. Severe discrimination against women and girls continues and inadequate protections against violence, including domestic violence. Women remain unequal under family law, are denied equal employment opportunities, and banned from driving or traveling alone.
 Protesters in several cities have come under attack by security forces and other pro-government demonstrators. At least 100 people have been killed during peaceful demonstrations in various cities in Yemen since early February 2011. Torture and other ill-treatment are widespread practices in Yemen and are committed, generally with impunity, against both detainees held in connection with politically motivated acts or protests and ordinary criminal suspects.
 The problems in the Middle East are a severe breach of US nature and governance. The United States stands for equal rights, right to express yourself, and the right to assembly. The US has been key in reforming governments in the Middle East. Yet, the new governments they have constituted are hardly better than the old ones, as crime and corruption is still widespread.
 For these three reasons we urge a pro ballot.