https://www.debate.org/debates/Universal-Health-Care-in-the-US/1/

TITLE: Universal Health Care in the US

CATEGORY: Politics

I'm going to address what you said in the first thing, about how it is immoral for the government to pay for it: "It's immoral because the government requires very high taxes to pay for UHC, and it's kindof like legal stealing since not all people involved consent to it." Okay, but if the government didn't take our money, we wouldn't have anything. We wouldn't have public school, social security, agricultural programs, welfare, legitimately every government program ever done. So it is the governments job to take money from us when it is necessary, and in the case of UHC, it is necessary as well.
 
 "About 44 million people in this country have no health insurance, and another 38 million have inadequate health insurance. This means that nearly one-third of Americans face each day without the security of knowing that, if and when they need it, medical care is available to them and their families." ( http://www.pbs.org... ).
 
 So that proves how it actually costs a lot more, so that shows that it is unfeasible. But you gave a statistic saying, "it would cost much less, so then the churches would be able to pay for it," so I'm going to prove that even if it was possible for the churches top pay for it, it still won't work.
 
 Every single thing in this debate that you have brought up relates to the POWs and the churches, so I'm going to address it now.
 
 I don't mean to be rude at all, because this isn't personal, but to me, it is insane to force churches to pay for something that should be the job of the government.
 
 Why it wouldn't work:
 
 Reason #1: Unfeasibility and Cost: As I said, I'm going to use the cost that you gave for the cost of UHC if POWs payed for it. You said it would cost $320 billion (which isn't that different from my estimate). There are 350,000 places of worship in the US in total.
 
 More Math!
 
 Lets divide $320 billion by 350,000
 =
 $914,284. Yes, that is how much each POW would have to pay for the people with inadequate healthcare. Saying that it is feasible for churches to pay for it is insane. ALMOST A MILLION DOLLARS PER YEAR!!! That is the burden that you are putting on the churches and POWs. Using your OWN NUMBERS, you can tell that this is impossible. This is something that the government can pay for. We are spending around 7.2 TRILLION dollars on things that we don't need(DailySignal.com). We have the money to pay for it without taxing people that much.
 
 Reason #2: Accessibility and Willingness: Okay, so, as I have said, not everybody has access to a POW. And even if they do, there are lots of people that don't want to go to a CHURCH for help, whether they are atheists, or just don't want to take money away from their religious causes. Then, more importantly, the churches won't do it. You say, "they are willing to help everyone." But I doubt that they will actually want to pay that $914,284 bill. Churches need money to plan events, pay rent, pay for goods and services, pay their workers, etc. They will probably not be willing to pay for that huge bill because, it should be obvious why.
 
 These reasons shut down your church argument (basically your only argument), using your own reasoning and numbers.
 
 Thus, vote proposition.
 
 Thanks, excited to hear your response!