https://www.debate.org/debates/Talking-to-women-inappropriately-on-the-internet-is-the-same-as-cheating./1/

TITLE: Talking to women inappropriately on the internet is the same as cheating.

CATEGORY: Science

IF you talking to them like friends...Not Cheating
 
 Flirting= Cheating
 
 Dirty Talk = Cheating
 
 Imagine if you were in her shoes...how would YOU feel if she talked to other men on the internet?? Not a nice feeling is it..? Its like just like txting someone only on the internet..
 
 Flirting (or coquetry) is a playful activity involving verbal communication as well as body language by one person to another, indicating an interest in a deeper relationship with the other person. Usually, flirting is therefore, either seriously or jokingly, intended to be interpreted as a romantic or sexual overture. A female flirt, especially a young one, is sometimes called a coquette; a male one, a womanizer or player.
 Flirting usually involves speaking and behaving in a way that suggests a mildly greater intimacy than the actual relationship between the parties would justify, though within the rules of social etiquette, which generally disapproves of a direct expression of sexual interest. This may be accomplished by communicating a sense of playfulness or irony. Double entendres, with one meaning more formally appropriate and another more suggestive, may be used. Body language can include flicking the hair, eye contact, brief touching, open stances, proximity etc. Verbal communication of interest can include the vocal tone, such as pace, volume, intonation. Challenges (teasing, questions, qualifying, feigned disinterest) serve to increase tension, test intention and congruity.
 Cheating refers to an immoral way of achieving a goal. It is generally used for the breaking of rules to gain advantage in a competitive situation. The rules infringed may be explicit, or they may be from an unwritten code of conduct based on morality, ethics or custom, making the identification of cheating a subjective process. Cheating can refer specifically to marital infidelity. Someone who is known for cheating is referred to as a cheat in British English, and a cheater in American English.