https://www.debate.org/debates/The-NRA-infringes-our-democracy./1/

TITLE: The NRA infringes our democracy.

CATEGORY: Politics

I will be submitting this debate to express my concern in light of so many innocent victims being massacred in recent shootings. I only hope my debate will help prevent more carnages by illuminating those who favor the use of assault weapons among the citizenry. No misconstrued man-made right outweigh the importance of our children's peace and harmony. Sending our kids to school should not become a frightening task.
 
 Does the NRA influence our government to a greater extend than ordinary citizens can? If the answer is yes, then our democracy is in danger. Democracy (demo for people, cracy for power) is not limited to the
 polls where we get to pick one out of two given candidates for the presidency. Actually, there were six candidates altogether this time, but only two had been promoted on national debates. Democracy takes place when we the people are able to participate in our government through our elected representatives. Otherwise, we will be subjected to a corporate dictatorship, something not intended by our founding fathers. Should we allow the NRA to lobby for its own interests instead of interests that benefit our entire society, including children? Can the NRA undermine the will of so many mothers and fathers worried about their children's safety at schools?
 
 If the only obstacle is the misinterpretation of the 2nd amendment (which refers to a "well-organized militia," no individual citizens and let alone about AR-15s, but muskets), so let's amend it like when we granted women the right to vote or allowed interracial marriages. Or, are we going to wait until we double the number of assault weapons in the hands of citizens not associated with law enforcement agencies or the military.
 
 Relying on background checks and psychological exams do not guarantee a successful resolution, especially because no one is born with a criminal history and there is always a first time. Likewise, people become insane and crazy overnight. When authorities have checked the behavior pattern of former active shooters, all they have found is a lack of evidence concerning unusual behavior and criminal history. Furthermore, record checks on the majority of active shooters have revealed a clean history.
 
 For the benefit of our children, all assault weapons should be relinquished. That is the only way we can start building a more peaceful world for new generations to come and for the present one. Our children deserve the best environment to prepare themselves and be ready to compete in this globalized world. That is what should be a right, not assault rifles.
 
 I wish my con exercise his best judgement as he develop his counter argument. Good luck!