https://www.debate.org/debates/Gay-Marriage-Should-Be-Legalized/7/

TITLE: Gay Marriage Should Be Legalized!

CATEGORY: Society

I am looking for someone to give me a reasonable explanation(s) why a same-sex couple should not be allowed to participate in the beauty, sacredness, and holiness that marriage is. For the 1st round I am asking for acceptance, 2nd-4th round going deeper into the argument, and the 5th round should be the final conclusion. This is my first debate so I'm not quite sure what to expect. Also, absolutely NO copying and pasting. If you are going to speak on your opinion, let it be YOUR own. I have a lot to say so I look forward to this debate :)
 
 First off, my name is Destinee Bayona. I'm an 18 year old freshman attending William Paterson University in New Jersey and Public Relations chairperson for CHOSEN: The Gender & Sexuality Alliance, formerly known as CHOSEN: Gay-Straight Alliance at my college. I am a bisexual - I did not choose this sexuality, nor was I born with it. Over time I noticed I had an interest in the same sex, I struggled with it but I decided this is who I was. Though it was difficult, I learned to accept myself and others did as well.
 
 I am also Puerto Rican and Italian, but have been judged and ridiculed for being partially Hispanic. I am considered a minority for this already, and I feel as though I am a double-minority since I am a member of the L.G.B.T. community. Members of this community are judged for their sexual preference, ridiculed, bullied, and some have even been murdered or committed suicide. Anti-gay supporters are of all different races, not just Caucasian. So tell me why is it that minorities are still attacking minorities - have we not overcome this yet?
 
 Being from New Jersey, I have seen and heard a lot about this with the recent death of Tyler Clementi, a gay freshman student who was attending Rutgers University and committed suicide because his roommate, Dharun Ravi, humiliated him by setting him up; Clementi was unknowingly recorded by a webcam having sex with another man and Ravi posted the video on Twitter. Tyler Clementi was so devastated by this action that he committed suicide by jumping to his death from the George Washington Bridge on September 22, 2010. Recently, at Montclair State University also in New Jersey, towards the end of January into the beginning of this month, the university has dealt with a threat against the LGBT community. Someone wrote inside one of the women's bathroom that all gays will die on February 7th - and this was not the first time an incident occurred there. I have also seen my state's governor, Chris Christie, flat out discriminate and object gays' rights to marry. My club, CHOSEN, sent in letters with the help of Garden State Equality to the New Jersey Legislature before voting was about to begin. Even though the votes could even override Christie's veto, he still would not accept this under any circumstance. It's this type of discrimination and hate that makes the world we live in today such a scary place.
 
 Now someone explain to me what makes it okay for this to happen?