https://www.debate.org/debates/Being-Vegetarian-Helps-the-Environment-More-than-not-Being-a-Vegetarian./1/

TITLE: Being Vegetarian Helps the Environment More than not Being a Vegetarian.

CATEGORY: Science

While your points are completely valid you are forgetting one major fact,
 
 The overpopulation of animals:
 
 Specific species of animals, such as cows need to be killed off to keep the population at a healthy level. If everyone was a vegetarian, the amount of cows and deer roaming the earth would be FAR to much for planet earth to maintain, and we would (eventually) end up dying because we didn't eat meat. You state 25% of the earth is used for grazing, and argue that is too much? Imagine if people were vegetarians,stopped eating grazing animals, and the animals were set free. This would cause a huge amount of the grass and healthy lands such as the rain forest to be torn down due to uncontrolled species. It is much less space consuming to have a tightly packed group of animals then a spaced out one. As for the water usage there are many ways in which we could cut down on this water shortage in other ways without disturbing the 90% of people who aren't vegetarians. Finally Humans are part of the environment too, many vegetarians eat LESS healthy then non-vegetarians.
 
 "And, of course, not all vegetarians eat healthily. If a vegetarian replaces meat with high-fat cheeses, junk food and so on, they"re unlikely to reap many health benefits " after all, there"s no meat in ice cream, potato chips, or fudge brownies! It"s certainly possible to be a vegetarian and still consume large quantities of high-fat, high-sugar empty calories.
 
 Replacing meat with poor substitutes can lead to nutrient deficiencies in protein, iron, calcium, zinc and vitamin B12. Athletes, children and pregnant females are particularly at risk as their nutrient needs are especially high. Vegans (who eat no animal products of any type) especially need to supplement their vitamin B12 intake. Poor meal-planning, illness, stress and the excessive use of supplements can also cause problems. It's therefore wise to seek professional advice on your dietary needs before making the switch to vegetarianism."
 ~Calorie King
 
 Sources:
  http://www.vegetariantimes.com... 
  http://www.calorieking.com...