https://www.debate.org/debates/The-gender-wage-gap-is-justified./1/

TITLE: The gender wage gap is justified.

CATEGORY: Politics

Hey, Thanks for agreeing to the debate.
 
 The observed wage gap is based on comparing the average income of men to the average income of women without considering any variables. Sometimes, When the wage gap is brought, Feminists say that women get paid less for the same jobs. That's rubbish.
 
 Asking women why they get paid less than men is like asking men why they are more likely to die in the workplace than women. It's because men and women tend to work DIFFERENT jobs. And just as some jobs are more dangerous than others, Some jobs pay more than others. And since men tend to work in higher paying jobs such as STEM fields, Men tend to earn more money and even if you are comparing men and women working in the SAME jobs, There are things which factor into why men get paid more.
 
 Such as the fact that men are more likely to work overtime, Are more likely to ask for raises or promotions, Are less likely to take vacations(Research by Springhill Suites), Are more competitive than women(National Bureau of Economic Research), Are more likely to take risks(The Telegraph), Prioritize earnings more than women, Retire at a later age(Huffington post). With all this taken into consideration, It's no wonder that men get paid more
 
 If companies could actually get away by paying women less, Don't you think they would hire nothing but women to save money? Do you honestly think that corporations are such boys' clubs that giving advantages to men is more important to them than their profits and shareholder interests?
 
 Also, The fact that there are less women than men in STEM fields has nothing to do with discrimination. In fact, A joint study conducted by Cornell University and the University of Michigan found that there is a 2:1 preference for woman applicants in STEM fields over equally qualified men. So the reason there are so few women in STEM fields is that there are few women who are interested in pursuing careers in STEM fields. And if you want to earn more money in STEM fields, Then you shouldn't waste your parents' money in an useless degree like gender studies.
 
 And if you think that the patriarchy is DELIBERATELY forcing women not to work at higher paying jobs like STEM fields, Explain why the patriarchy isn't stopping women from dominating certain fields such as veterinary fields(Association of American Veterinary Medical Colleges), Medicine, Psychology, Pharmacology and biology according to the same source.
 
 Furthermore, Some people claim 77 cents to a dollar, While some claim 68 cents and yet others claim 72 cents. Which one does someone believe? Also, Men pay more in car insurance than women and also pay more income tax than women out of proportion to the "wage gap". So, It balances it out.