https://www.debate.org/debates/Its-better-for-a-government-to-keep-its-citizens-in-a-state-of-fear./1/

TITLE: It's better for a government to keep its citizens in a state of fear.

CATEGORY: Politics

I would like to thank Sky_ace25 for this debate and welcome him to Debate.org.
 
 I negate, that "It's better for a government to keep its citizens in a state of fear".
 
 ==REBUTTALS==
 --Loyalty--
 When people have a fear, they become dependent on a higher entity. There is no way to guarantee that entity will be government. In fact, they probably will not. Fear, as an irrational actor, also can make people irrational. More people than not will turn to religion (or another promising faction) instead of government because religion can promise the same protection, and (assuming that the fear is generated by a facade) have the same effect. Religion can use propaganda in the same way as the government, and can use public fear to gain power. Religion can then be used to motivate a force to overthrow the government, so that the religious leaders can gain power.
 
 --Community--
 In the same manner as stated above, community can be used against government as a tool of other agencies.
 
 --Conclusion--
 A government interested in staying in power takes a huge risk of relacement by creating fear.
 
 ==The Negative Case==
 Staying in power should not be the goal of government action. Even if manufacturing an external evil kept a government in control, is the government in control worth having? It is corrupt in that it has deliberately falsified information. It is abusive in that it has used unnecessary violence. It has become destructive to its own purpose, to protect individual rights. Such a government is best overthrown and replaced with a more righteous one.
 
 Loyalty can be better achieved through non-corrupt means. Efficiency and righteous action can keep a people's faith in their government. Patriotism can be manufactured through propaganda that does not consist of lies.
 
 ==Conclusion==
 Fear (as defined before) is a blunt, ineffective, immoral, and unnecessary tool for an ideal society.
 
 I now yield to the affirmative.