https://www.debate.org/debates/Same-sex-marriage-should-be-legalized-in-Australia/1/

TITLE: Same sex marriage should be legalized in Australia

CATEGORY: Politics

You have only addressed one of my arguments.
 "Opposite-sex couples can get married whether or not they are able or willing to procreate." This does not subtract from the principle of marriage and procreation is still a possibility. However, same sex couples cannot procreate, it is not even a possibility.
 
 "equal legal treatment."
 Heterosexual marriage is not equal to same marriage. Discrimination on the basis skin color, gender etc is wrong but discrimination on the basis of skill, talent, charisma, social skills etc is not. In this case the discriminating factor is procreation. Same sex couples are awarded legal rights under civil unions which is sufficient.
 
 "Same-sex couples have and raise children"
 Opposite couples are better equipped to raise children then same sex couples. WHY has nature endowed us with a mother and father?
 
 "higher suicide rates than their heterosexual counterparts"
 Is this not the the cause of this their homosexuality. Higher suicide rates and lower life expectancy is common among homosexuals and to attribute this to other people ignores all internal factors. Take regions where homosexuality is accepted thoroughly but yet these statistics remain. The source of these problems is in the lifestyle itself.
 
 "celebrate their love and commitment...social recognition"
 All of your arguments can be applied to any non traditional marriage relationship.
 
 "Same-sex marriage is already a reality in a growing list of countries including the Netherlands, Belgium, Norway, Spain, Canada and South Africa."
 Morality and laws are not based on what everyone else is doing and so this argument is arbitrary. I believe in absolute morality as given by God.
 
 I feel as if your argument is a copy and paste so please respond directly to what i have said (QUOTE what i have said and say why i am wrong).
 Answer This: If two sisters came up to you and said they love each other and are deeply committed and wanted to adopt children, what principle would you rely on to dismiss them access to marriage? Are you not "discriminating" and denying them equal social and legal recognition etc.