https://www.debate.org/debates/Use-of-the-Death-Penalty-as-punishment-for-capital-murder-and-sex-crimes./1/

TITLE: Use of the Death Penalty as punishment for capital murder and sex crimes.

CATEGORY: Politics

Hello, and I look forward to calmly and politely debating with you. First of all to start my argument, life is truly wonderful thing, in the christian (Or most mainstream religious views) we were created by a great deity and are their greatest creation, In an atheist or agnostic view we are a species evolved to such an extent that we have gained not only sapience but sentience. In both of these views it is truly amazing that we are humans and should take great pride and respect for lives. Of coarse the crimes that you speak of in this debate are absolute atrocities that shames the human race, but we as human cannot and should not decide who lives, and who dies. Because if we do this are we any better than the murderer? While of coarse we did not kill in cold blood while they did, how can we as humans truly deserve who gets to die and who gets to live. Second of all can you please link me to a source that shows that the death penalty is a good deterrent to these horrible felonies. Thank you. Also when I think about crimes and jail, the thing that i am not scared about is getting killed from the death penalty. The thing that deters me and probably deters others from even thinking of doing these crimes is being locked up in some cramped jail cell with a bunch of other murderers and rapists for the rest of my life. Being in a place until the end of my days without being able to do anything and lose your entire life's chance is much scarier than dieing to me. Kind of like I would rather die than be a vegetable for the rest of my life. Why? because there are fates worse than deaths and if we truly want to punish and deter criminals I think that the best coarse of action is to show how horrible living in prison for the rest of your life is. many (But of coarse not all) who commit these crimes are not afraid of death, (As shown by many mass shootings where it ends with the shooters suicide) some who commit these crimes are in a part of thier life where they want to die or are hurting so bad they need to let someone else die or get sexually assaulted. Also new studies and reports are giving signs that lethal Injections is not as humane as we thought.  http://www.medicalnewstoday.com...  Then you must think about the doctors or executioners having to do these executions, can you imagine the regret and sadness they must feel. Not only are we letting 2 people die all for waste, but also condemning the executioners and their mental state. Thank you for listening and I look forward to your counter thesis.