https://www.debate.org/debates/Homosexual-Marriage/18/

TITLE: Homosexual Marriage

CATEGORY: Politics

Calling something marriage does not make it marriage. Marriage has always been a covenant between a man and a woman which is by its nature ordered toward the creation and education of children and continuing of humanity..
 
 The promoters of same-sex "marriage" propose something entirely different. They propose the union between two men or two women. This denies the self-evident biological, physiological, and psychological differences between men and women which find their complementary in marriage. If everything went their way, then Humanity would end in a few generations. It also denies the specific primary purpose of marriage. To have children, raise them and continue humanity.
 
 Same sex marriage is not the way humans are supposed to get married, as dictated by God. God says that a man marries a woman. Just because monkeys do it does not mean we should. We are intellectually superior to animals. We have more complex minds than animals, which think "eat,drink,sleep".
 
 The best interests of a child is that he or she has a both mother and a father. He will be raised by someone with no blood relation with him. Same Sex Marriage is against the best interests of a child.
 
 Homosexual activists argue that same-sex "marriage" is a civil rights issue similar to the struggle for equality in all races.
 
 First of all, sexual behavior and race are essentially different realities. A man and a woman wanting to marry may be different in their characteristics: one may be black, the other white; one rich, the other poor; or one tall, the other short. None of these makes it so they cannot marry, but same sex marriage goes against human nature.
 
 Secondly, inherited and unchangeable racial traits cannot be compared with non-genetic and changeable behavior. There is simply no analogy between the interracial marriage of a man and a woman and the "marriage" between two individuals of the same sex. It would never work out biologically for a man to have a baby with another one.
 
 It Imposes Its Acceptance on All of Society. People might not think that it is a good idea, as most of the USA does. However, it is becoming a requirement to teach that it should be accepted, and if you are against it, you get punished. This is a kind of mental oppression, as the secularists are taking control of our education system, and are trying to force us to believe everything that they say. Same Sex marriage is an objective moral; it will always be wrong, whether it is a thousand years in the future, or a thousand years in the past. It offends God, and therefore it must be wrong.