https://www.debate.org/debates/Donald-Trump-President-or-Not/1/

TITLE: Donald Trump: President or Not?

CATEGORY: Politics

1. American IS a business. It is the world's largest economy, and should be treated as such. The United States needs someone in charge that knows how the economy works, and knows how to create jobs.
 
 2. Might and will are two different phrases. He ran in 2000, and is running for 2016 as well.
 
 3. He has ended The Apprentice since he is so popular in the polls.
 
 4. He is a Christian, just like many other Americans, who believe that we were created by God. He certainly does not think he is "a gift", which is something that you are just deducing from misplaced evidence.
 
 5. You are a perfect representation of the stupidity of the media. You just took a quote and twisted it so hard out of context that it is unbelievable. He is the most successful person to run for President, with a net worth of over 10 Billion dollars.
 
 6. Your reason for him not being president is because he said a quote in third person?
 
 7. Every economist thinks differently. He has been in business for decades and has done better than many other economists. Need I remind you that Wharton Business School is arguably the best business school in the world.
 
 8. At this point, you are showing signs of mental retardation. He states that one of our buildings is built badly and managed poorly, which is synonymous with many third world countries. He states that other nations are doing better in that specific sector, which in this case is, airports.
 
 9. It does not cost 5 billion to create a website. I'm not sure that it would cost 3 dollars, but much less than what it cost Obama.
 
 10. Once again, your reasoning for why he should not be President is because he mentions his golf courses?
 
 11. He is a professional. Full time unemployment is at 20%. Because of minimum wage increases, people are being fired form full time jobs and given part time jobs. Obama Administration does not report this because they still count part time as actual employment.
 
 12. That is no excuse for why he should not be President.
 
 13. Prove me wrong. Find me evidence in which he would do things slowly.