https://www.debate.org/debates/Donald-Trump-will-make-a-great-President/1/

TITLE: Donald Trump will make a great President

CATEGORY: Politics

Rebuttal: Donald Trump is without a doubt a successful businessman, and is very knowledgeable about the economy. However, Donald Trump is not a politician. He may have what it takes to employ the people of his businesses, but that does not mean he will be able to find a way to employ the millions of Americans without a job(from a political standpoint). Trump has been proved to fail in many business situations as well; he is not all just success. Take a look at the scandal involving Trump University. At the start, Trump University violated the law of operating without proper license, according to the NYSED license code of conduct.[1] Given the fact that Trump had violated laws in order to make money suggests how Trump may not even be that great of a businessman in the end, considering that he has to break laws in order to make his fortune. (Not to mention, the numerous lawsuits upon Trump following the scandal). Due to these reasons, the argument that Trump would make a good president because of the fact that according to Pro, he is a "good businessman" is faulty. (Not to mention the fact that your contention is extremely superficial)
 
 Contention 2: Trump would not make a good president because he does not practice as he preaches. Trump says that as president, he will look to employ American workers, and find Americans specifically, jobs. This is a faulty Trump statement as he has even openly admitted that in his companies, he does not employ as many American workers as he should. Trump turned down 94 percent of job applicants from American workers.[1] Trump promises to get more Americans employed, but is that what truly wants? If that were truly what Trump wanted, he would not have declined 94 percent of American applicants for his companies. Trump would make a poor president because he does not practice what he says his ideology is. Thanks for the great debate! You had strong arguments!
 
 Citations: http://www.nationalreview.com...