https://www.debate.org/debates/Racism/14/

TITLE: Racism

CATEGORY: Society

Hey, thanks for taking the time to let your views be known and allowing others to comment on them.
 
 Attributing racism purely to a few bad situations a person might encounter is a gross oversimplification of the issues between races. When you start to break down large scale demographic issues you start to see the problems underlying most of the problems people have with people of African descent.
 
 First you have Africans when they represent a minority in a population. I'll be referring mostly to blacks in the US since I am more familiar with my home country. Here blacks commit roughly the same amount of violent crime as whites across all financial demographics. They also make terrible parents. 72% of Black Mothers are unmarried when they give birth, and the majority of them are on Medicaid at the time which comes at the cost of everyone else. And while the rate of child abuse is fairly consistent when adjusted for population, Black child abuse has a disproportionately high fatality rate.
 
 Then you have the differences in genetics. Whites and Asians tend to be more intelligent than Hispanics and blacks, while the inverse tends to be true for physical strength. While this fact is not inherently racist, it leads to much animosity when these groups are forced together.
 
 Then you factor in what happens once they gain a majority control in a country. You may or may not be surprised to find out that blacks tend to be far more racist toward whites than any white controlled nation towards blacks. This is consistent throughout all of sub-Saharan Africa, be it Zimbabwe where they drove away all the white farmers shortly before they began suffering a food shortage or in South Africa where two of the major political parties stances are 'take white owned land without compensation' and 'Genocide all whites'.
 
 So you have a violent, low intelligence, group of people who actively try to ruin the lives of any minority in a country their race controls. It's not hard to see why many would look down on such people and would rather be around people of their own race.
 
 
 
 I'd like to thank you again for giving me this opportunity and look forward to your rebuttal. 
 
 Black Racism: https://www.telegraph.co.uk... 
   http://dailycaller.com... 
 Black Crime: https://ucr.fbi.gov... 
 Racial Differences in IQ: https://www.news-medical.net... 
 Black Motherhood: https://www.cdc.gov... 
   https://www.cdc.gov... 
   https://archive.acf.hhs.gov...