https://www.debate.org/debates/Should-the-death-penalty-be-abolished/11/

TITLE: Should the death penalty be abolished

CATEGORY: Politics

I do not necessarily disagree with my opponents points. There is a problem of discrimination. There is a problem of cost. There is a problem of wrongful convictions. But I disagree that these are problems inherent in the death penalty. In other words I do not believe that these problems are the fault of the death penalty itself. Let me start with his first point that the death penalty is expensive.
 Because the death penalty can sometimes take 20 years to complete the process, the cost is great. As a matter of fact, at one point executions in California were costing 30 million dollars. But this is not the fault of the death penalty. The actual execution is very cheap. But the reason the death penalty is so expensive is because of the judicial system. If we reformed the death penalty, then we could make it where there is one trial, and in that trial the jury decides whether to sentence the person to death or not. If this happened the death penalty would be so much more cheaper than life imprisonment that we would actually be saving money by using the death penalty.
 My opponents second point is that there is a racial discrimination. This isn't the fault of the death penalty, this is a problem with us as a country. If we don't discriminate against blacks and other races, then this problem won't be occurring. Even if we abolished the death penalty, racial discrimination will still be happening. It's not like abolishing the death penalty will cause racial discrimination to go away. The problem is us as a nation, not the death penalty.
 My opponents third point is that wrongful convictions occur. This is true, and no matter how we will reform the death penalty, this problem will still be occurring. But the same problem will be happening if we abolish the death penalty. Let's say that we sent all killers to life in prison. In the year 1998 6,500 prisoners escaped and murdered again. This is huge compared to the small amount of wrongful convictions. If we abolished the death penalty, the amount of innocent people killed will only go up.
 I look forward to your arguments :)