https://www.debate.org/debates/Gay-Marriage-Should-Be-Illegal-In-the-United-States/1/

TITLE: Gay Marriage Should Be Illegal In the United States

CATEGORY: Society

Thank you for accepting this debate! Good luck!   
         
         Marriage and Procreation       What makes marriage what it is? What makes marriage special so that it should only be obtained by 
       man and woman together? The answer is the relationship that only heterosexual couples can 
       pursue. Normally the argument in support of gay marriage goes along the lines of, “Oh well they 
       really love each other so they should get married!” If marriage was about the emotional connection 
       then why wouldn’t the two people simply stay in a non-marital relationship? There is no point in 
       recognizing a relationship that is only out of love. Obviously, only man and woman can procreate. 
       Without procreation a society could not continue to live or thrive. The reason the man and woman 
       get the marriage benefits is because they are doing society a “favor” per say by procreating and 
       allowing the society to live. This is something homosexuals simply cannot do. Procreation and the 
       proper raising of children are at the base of marriage; it is the main reason marriage exists. This fits 
       the traditional view of marriage, which is between man and woman. Gay marriage gives absolutely 
       no value to society at all as a whole. At the heart of marriage is also the proper raising of children, 
       therefore infertile heterosexual couples can and should also be able to get married. Even though 
       they cannot procreate, they can adopt and raise children for society; therefore they still provide 
       society benefits.      
       Marriage Between Man and Woman      Now from my last point, it may sound like my arguments go along the line of procreation and the 
     proper raising of children being the only important thing in marriage. While procreation is what 
     benefits society in essence, marriage is more than that.      
       Men and women are complimentary to each other in marriage, and through the loving (and natural) 
       relationship they pursue. This loving relationship fulfilled at its best (much like a tree that bears 
       fruit) produces children for society and raises them properly to continue societal growth. Marriage 
       between man and woman connects sexual intercourse with love and not lust, sexual intercourse 
       connects with children, and the children connect to being raised and loved by their mom and dad. 
       This is all good for society and is a role in marriage that can only be fulfilled by a man and a woman. 
       Marriage is about the relationship   between man and woman, and when that relationship is fulfilled at 
       its best, it commonly becomes a loving family that raises children properly for society. Not only does 
       gay marriage not fulfill this role, but allowing gay marriage actually distorts this role, leading to 
       marriage ultimately losing its meaning.         
          Government has a role in marriage, however that role should be limited       There is a limited role that the government should, and should not do with marriage. Hopefully the 
       government would never go as far as to legalize marriages based around pedophilia, bestiality, 
       having multiple spouses, ect. In order to preserve the sanctity and meaning of marriage, the 
       government must draw the line somewhere on who gets married. It logical to see that this line 
       should be drawn at marriage between a man and a woman. Reasoning behind this can be seen in my 
       procreation argument and my argument over the relationships heterosexual couples pursue. 
       Marriages between man and woman benefit society while not complicating society like having 
       multiple spouses could   do. Once marriage only becomes an emotional relationship between two 
       people and nothing more, the meaning behind marriage is lost.     
     There is a reason that the government regulates marriage. This reason is that marriage between 
     man and woman is inherently good in the sense that it has a special link to procreation and the 
     proper raising of children for society. The government would be doing a poor job regulating marriage 
     if they allowed anything that didn’t have the best societal structure interest in mind.     
       Parenting among homosexuals      Obviously one of the most important things in society is the children and how they are raised. Children need to be raised well in order to keep the society moving forward without problems. Homosexuals cannot achieve the expectations set in raising children well, or even better than heterosexual parents and I will now explain why.     A study taken in July of 2012 proved that homosexual parents fail in all categories in being better than their heterosexual counterparts at parenting.       "Homosexually-behaving adults inherently suffer significantly and substantially higher rates of partner relationship breakups, psychological disorder, suicidal ideation, suicidal attempt, completed suicide, conduct disorder, and substance abuse; therefore, as a group, households with a resident homosexually-behaving adult are substantially less capable of providing the best psychologically stable and secure home environments needed by foster children."(1)(4)        A study taken from the Journal of Human Sexuality concludes the following:              The presence of a father reduces the chances that the child will participate in criminal activities and reduces the chances the child will take drugs.            Lesbian mothers make children more sexually active. Fathers help the child stay chaste.          “Boys need fathers to help form sexual identities, and need mothers in order to interact with the opposite sex.”  (3)    People have the best sex lives when raised by heterosexual parents.    Fathers help children with interaction among other people.      When going through puberty, the father teaches the son  “how to be assertive and how to be a “man”. ( 3)             “  violence among homosexual partners is two to three times more common than among married heterosexual couples, and homosexual partnerships are significantly more prone to dissolution than heterosexual marriages”. (4)      I will concede to the point that there are homosexuals that  can  raise children better than  some  heterosexual couples. To clear up why it still isn’t appropriate to allow the exceptions, I will give this analogy:      “we should not stop warning people about the dangers of smoking just because some smokers outlive non-smokers. Nor should we stop warning people about the dangers of homosexual behavior or parenting just because some homosexuals outlive heterosexuals or parent better.        If laws were based on exceptions, we would have to do away with virtually every law we have. It would require that we do away with all laws against running red lights because sometimes running a red light will not hurt anyone. In fact, it would require that we do away with marriage itself because spouses in some marriages abuse one another and their children.”(4)              I await my opponent's response.  
     
     (1)      http://catholiceducation.org...      (2)       Journal of Human Sexuality     (3)       Quote from Fanboy in his debate, “Same-sex marriages should be legal in the United States.”    (4)      http://www.allaboutlove.org...