https://www.debate.org/debates/porn-to-be-made-illegal/1/

TITLE: porn to be made illegal

CATEGORY: Politics

Ok, I will be that guy... Since I am Con, I just need to negate my opponents argument. Pro assumes burden of proof, for she proposes an action against the status quo.
 
 
 I will begin with an unusual format, but I want to rebut first... I want to, ok!
 
 
 
 "Firstly; young people are exposed to it as it is just a few clicks away"
 
  Well, not necessarily. Regarding porn online, many sites require you to confirm your age. Parents can use software to disallow their children from viewing it online. It would be worth adding that it is illegal for children to view pornography if they are below the age of eighteen. Regarding porn as material (magazines etc.) it is regulation, or against the law to view or purchase it when you are below the age of eighteen. Although, some may find a way to access it illegally, however, it is  illegal , if we apply Pro's logic to alcohol, that should be banned as well, because minors can get a hold of it.
 
 
  " it can be accessed from mobile devices, tablets, computers, and also even on TV" 
 
 On every device that Pro listed, there can be parental software implemented so they cannot view the sites. As I have mentioned earlier, to view it would be illegal...
 
  "Young people think that it is normal to watch it as their friends or older siblings have, but it isn't cool at all. It can cause all sorts of long term issues. "
 
 This is not valid for an entire ban. This applies for alcohol as well... We should not ban something on the bases that some people may or may not find it 'cool'. You also provide no solitary sources to confirm this.
 
  "Porn stars are fake, they have implants and cosmetic surgery to get behind the camera and onto screens."
  
 Not necessarily. There are many categories of porn...To each their own actually. Some people don't like 'fake girls' so they choose to watch natural girls 'perform' instead.
 
  "These fakes become fantasies, young people get brainwashed by them and then when it comes to reality become very disappointed."
 
  Hmmm, I don't understand this. She refers to the 'fantasies' that she just mentioned before, yet states something that seems out of context. She referred to girls being fake. How would this become a fantasy? Are you meaning girls wanting implants etc.? Well, that would require them to watch porn in the first place; it is illegal! Breast implants are a very popular modification, they could easily get it done when they are older. I don't see how this is a fantasy. 
 
 "Porn makes it hard for people to approach the opposite sex as they aren't necessarily attracted to them as they look nothing like the porn stars."
 
  No evidence...
 
  "many boys/men enjoy watching porn and get erected from what they see, when they actually go to do anything with a real woman they find that erections can be hard to get." 
 
 No evidence...
 
  "Porn gives people a false sense of what real women and sex is like. "
 
  No evidence... 
 
  
 Ok, ok, I am lazy... I can't be bothered quoting every single line... I'm Sorry! I will just quote the entire paragraph...
 
 
  "Porn can cause self esteem issues as the fantasies override reality. Many women feel insure about their partners watching porn as they feel like their body or their sexual acts aren't enough for their partner, many women don't have the breasts or bottom or vagina that the porn stars have, this can make them very insecure and lower self esteem. Men can also be made to feel as when they see these porn stars penis' they often compare the size, as these porn stars have quite large ones they believe that that is the normal size and begin to feel that theirs is inadequate.
  Porn can ruin relationships, either due to making the partner feel very insure or stopping arousal.
  If porn was made illegal underaged young people won't be able to access it. People will become more motivated and go out and meet real people. People will start to expect reality and erectile dysfunction & arousal issues will be solved. People will begin to feel that they are good enough once again and self esteem will be raised in many people. People will find relationships and sexual acts will become meaningful, within these relationships porn won't be able to ruin it. Everyone can get pleasure if they seek it In the right way. Porn isn't the answer."
 
  Why no evidence? For next round can you please provide sources? 
 
 
 
  Pro's entire argument is constructed upon an 'argument from silence' fallacy. I assume much of her information is anecdotal. 
 
 Nevertheless, let's say her argument is, in fact, all valid... From start to finish... All valid... If it is, it is constructed like so:
 
 P1: It can harm people
 C: It must be banned
 
 We can apply this logic to literally every other subject or item that is legal, for example, let's take my good friend alcohol... What do you think alcohol? "Well, people can become alcoholics... I can be the cause for many car crashes... If people overindulge in me, it can cause severe liver problems." Thanks alcohol... Well, according to her logic, alcohol should be banned, cars should be banned, planes should be banned etc. etc.
 
 An entire ban is a bit drastic... Pro should be arguing that there should be an increased awareness for the problems of pornography. The problems that she has listed doesn't apply to everyone... If there is more awareness regarding the potential problems, people could watch at their own risk - people might feel the positives outweigh the negatives. It would be unfair to ban it completely... Also, here argument is completely too idealistic... She assumes that no-one would get access to porn. How? Do you expect everyone to abide by the law? What about the magazines? It can't be expected that people would just burn, or get rid of their porn. What about downloaded porn? You cannot expect people to just delete everything... 
 
 Well, over to you, Pro!
      
     
 
 