https://www.debate.org/debates/Murder-is-Okay/2/

TITLE: Murder is Okay

CATEGORY: Society

2. Lets examine Con's arguement in round 1, if you say "I murdered someone" and are given 25 years in prison, it doesn't mean it is not okay to murder, it just means it's illegal, anything can be made illegal, it doesn't require a majority vote, smoking is legal despite it killing you, is that acceptable? There is a reason behind every law, and murder just happens to be based on outdated reasoning. Laws need to be changed and do quite a lot.
 
 Con says murder deprives someone of their life. What about the other lives who are awaiting a transplant, and their loved ones? Aren't they important too? It is selfish to allow more people to die and to allow more people to suffer. I've proven that there are more life-years that could be saved through murder, more lives saved etc, yet this point is simply ignored.
 
 Just because someone says you have a right to life doesn't mean it's not okay to murder, a fetus can have a right to life, but is abortion okay?
 
 3. The point I made about atomic bombs is that the majority of people believe that the lives of the many outweigh the lives of the few and still holds.
 
 4. All life is valuable, so we should do whatever saves most lives, no matter how cruel it may be e.g. if you have 9 dogs and 8 of them need an organ immediately, one of the dogs should be killed so the other 8 can live. This applies with humans too. It is the right thing to do. There are animals who kill their own babies if they have defects, murder is a natural thing.
 
 5. Con says that murder is disgusting, this is perhaps his weakest arguement, some people say that homosexuals are disgusting, but does it mean it is not okay to find the same sex attractive? Should we make it a crime to be gay? No, so why should we make murder illegal, and think it is wrong, just because you find it disgusting?
 
 Nobody would sign the NHS organ register if they knew the truth about how it devalues life. Consent rate is high because the majority of people believe the lives of the many outweigh the lives of the few, therefore if people were murdered and their organs were harvested I don't think they would mind. I think most people would want to live, the dog in my example would want to live, but should it if that means more life will die and suffer? My answer to that is no!
 
 I look forward to your response
 
 Thanks for accepting this debate. Vote Pro.