https://www.debate.org/debates/Higher-Education-is-outdated-for-the-millennial-generation/2/

TITLE: Higher Education is outdated for the millennial generation

CATEGORY: Society

Once more, quotes from my opponent will be italicized. I'm going to make this round very short, as I barely have time to answer before I need to go. I tried answering before, but ddo had an issue and crashed on me, making me lose my progress on this round, right when I was almost done with this round and about to post it.
 
   Yes, nursing and doctoring can definitely improve our quality of life - yet does this really create a big social impact?  According to 80000.org (1), each doctor saves about 90 lives in their lifetime.  
   That depends on who they just saved the life of. If it was the next Bill Gates, then that doctor had tremendous effect on society. 
 
    doctors cannot take sole credit for medicine. (Researchers, managers, scientists, nurses)
  And most of those positions require a college degree, with the exception being managers.
 
   You don't need to go to university without creating a big social impact
  Yes, but it is a means to be able to do so, and a route through which the millennial generation can do it.
 
   What about electricity? Or education? Or government?
  Nearly everyone in our government has, not only a college degree, but a post-graduate degree. And to be a teacher, you need a college degree.  
 
   37% students regret going to college, and 49% graduates believe that they would have ended up where they are today without a college degree.
  I consider these statistics to be helpful to my case, because that means majority of millennials did find going to college useful, didn't regret it, and accept that they couldn't get where they are now without a college degree. This should be used as a reason to vote for pro.
 
   Con uses the doctor argument again, yet it is revealed above that medicine is not as influential on the quality of life than investing and utilising your money to elsewhere for society, which millennials care more about. 
  Though each of the examples you brought up, except one(electricity) requires a college degree. A large chunk of jobs that influence society require a college degree.
  
 Re: government-funded higher education, con said  I personally don't believe this is possible in America.  and continued on with points.
 Yes, I don't think we will get this to happen with the current congress or current president, but it could be possible in the future when and if we get a more progressive president and congress. In addition, we already have education up to high school government funded, and I don't see why most people would be opposed to the idea of extending it to college.  
 
 Re: Statistics argument:
 Actually, I do know the sample size for one of the studies;, the one for anxiety was  9282 adults, which was found by going to my source above, and looking up the source they linked to for the number they used. That is a sample size that is much more than enough needed to be a reliable sample size. The second one, which was the percentage of adults with depression, I am having difficulty finding the sample size they used. I'm not sure if there's reason to question the results though, because 6.7% of the adult population having depression seems believable. If anything, that sounds too low. 
   Sources:
  [8]  https://www.nimh.nih.gov...