https://www.debate.org/debates/Politics-and-Current-Events-should-be-a-mandatory-class-in-middle-school/1/

TITLE: Politics and Current Events should be a mandatory class in middle school

CATEGORY: Politics

First and foremost, I too must agree on the idea that Politics and Current Events are of great importance for the general population. However, it is my firm belief that introducing these classes in the educational system would have a backlash effect because people, instead of treating them according to their true importance, would be more reluctant to understanding and emphasizing them than in the Status Quo (current situation).
 
 Let's start with why Middle school emphasizes the subjects that it does now. The answer comes from the mere psychology of human beings. The period of Middle school is the period we are most interested in learning about the world around us. However, this mostly refers to other things than Politics or Current events (which may mainly refer to important geopolitical events, as interpreted by the Opposition) but to subjects like Biology, Geography or Physics. Information that we are genuinely interested about at that age. I believe all of us can relate to questions such as: "Why is the sky blue?" or "What is the tallest place on Earth?". But never in my Middle school years have I ever been interested in subjects such as Politics.
 
 The reason for this lies not on subjective factors that differ from person to person, but on the simple fact that the mere complexity of these subjects are enough to generate hate from children of those ages. The reason? Short attention span. Just to clarify, I am not talking about ADHD or anything similar on this matter, but I believe we can all agree on the fact that children are interested in things that ignite their curiosity. Politics will certainly not do it for them. No matter how hard will we try to simplify the concepts and ideologies, should the motion be implemented, children will still have a hard time understanding it. And even the minority that can understand it will not want to understand it or will be uninterested because it does not spark their interest as much as other subjects. Thus, Politics and Current Events classes will not be an efficient way of solving the fact that in the SQ, many people are genuinely not interested in issues regarding the aforementioned subjects. Furthermore, instead of solving the problem posed by the Proposition, the Opposition believes that it will actually result in a worsening of it.
 
 Mathematics, as we all know, is a complex subject for children in Middle school. Not as complex as Politics though, it has a bad reputation among children simply due to the fact that they can't understand it properly. This is not only due to it's complexity, but to other external factors we cannot control, such as bad education system or unqualified teachers, aspects that can be relevant in this debate as well. But the main reaction that these classes will generate will be that of a backlash. The fact that we are trying to make Politics and Current Events more important through classes will actually do more harm than bring benefits. These classes will gain bad reputation, such as mathematics, and children will become more and more reluctant to understanding them. The Opposition is aware of the fact that some, just like in the case of mathematics, will both understand and emphasize these classes, what we are interested in, given the framework posed by this debate, is the majority. And we can certainly assume that the majority will not like these classes, at least not in middle school.
 
 To conclude, given my reasoning mentioned above, it is my firm belief that Politics and Current Events classes will deepen the problem posed by the Proposition in the Status Quo and that the methods proposed in order to solve it are inefficient and may trigger about unwanted consequences. Thus, I am more than happy to oppose.