https://www.debate.org/debates/Politcal-Correctness-Is-Bad/1/

TITLE: Politcal Correctness Is Bad

CATEGORY: Politics

Pro believes that political correctness is bad. To be bad, it must do more harm than good. Let's look at his argument (and bear in mind that he has burden of proof that political correctness does more harm than good).
 
 Pro states that the liberal/democrats use political correctness as a weapon to silence those who have an opposing political view. Yet he has stated no evidence that shows a liberal or democrat politician (the only way you can be sure that they are a liberal or a democrat is if they 1. tell you or 2. are a politician in a liberal/democrat party) using political correctness to silence somebody's point of view.
 
 Also, we have to make sure that we don't confuse political correctness with a valid counter argument. I have seen this conversation happen a lot before:
 
 Person A: 'Terrorism would stop if we banned Islam!'
 Person B: No it wouldn't it would create more extremists because not all muslims are terrorists (in fact 0.06% of muslims are in terrorist groups) so by banning their religion you would create extremists out of moderates who felt the need to defend their way of life.
 Person A: Then they can stay in the middle east where they belong! You political correctness types are what's wrong with the world!
 
 Here we see a valid counterargument from person B (who I imagine Pro would genuinely consider to be a 'liberal') being silenced by person A who cannot differentiate between political correctness and a very valid counter argument. The people who believe that banning Islam would stop terrorism (despite the fact that Islam doesn't kill people, people who want to kill people and are using Islam as a banner under which they can do so without actually understanding Islam) are generally the same people who believe that banning guns won't solve gun crime (because they rightly say that criminals, the people who don't use their guns 'properly,' won't give up their guns; well it's the same with Islam). 
 
 Pro also states that 'a man who becomes a woman through a sex change is still a man. This can be true and it can't be true. A man and a woman have different brains. It is biologically possible for an individual with a female brain to be born into a male body and vice versa. Therefore, their 'gender' was never male. So when they have a sex change they go from being biologically male with a female gender to being biologically female with a male gender. Pro, I assume, does not deny the existence of hermaphrodites, who can have either male or female gender but are born with both male and female organs. If pro accepts the existence os hermaphrodites then he must accept that your body is not always aligned correctly with your mind. And therefore is accepting that an individual with a female mind born in a male body is female of gender but not female biologically, unless they have a sex change in which case they become female biologically as well. And, even if that weren't true (and I have provided undeniable proof that not only is it true, but unless Pro denies the existence of hermaphrodites he also has to agree with me that it is true) why does it do more harm than good to prevent you from telling somebody who is born a female in a male's body and not doing any harm to anybody that they are not allowed to be female because it doesn't fit within your worldview and therefore discredit them as the gender they feel they are? And although there is evidence that some people regret having a sex change, the number of people who do experience some regret are only 3-18% of everybody who does. Therefore preventing everybody from having a sex change simply because of the 3-18% of those who do regret it would prevent the beneficial effects in the 82-97% of the population who decide to get it. That would be doing more harm than good. Therefore, when Pro tells a transexual man that they are not a real man, they are not 'stating facts' (as we have shown that they are in fact a man gender-wise even if they are not biologically), they are just projecting their world-view onto somebody who does not want it and are doing this for no other reason than they believe that they are right, and want the other person to think that they are right no matter how much this might hurt the other person.
 
 So we have seen that Pro's argument that political correctness is used by 'liberals' to 'silence' views they disagree with is just Pro confusing valid counterarguments for political correctness. The reason that Pro does this is that he seems to think his 'facts' are right 100% of the time and that people with opposing opinions must be wrong, and the only reason they could think otherwise to him is that society tells them to and it's all a big liberal conspiracy, so political correctness is what he's blaming it on. He has not proved that political correctness does more harm than good. Vote Con.