https://www.debate.org/debates/Donald-Trump-will-make-a-great-President/1/

TITLE: Donald Trump will make a great President

CATEGORY: Politics

Rebuttal: You claim that Trump is not a politically correct person as if that is a good thing, and your only defense to that is that he sees things by the truth which is approved by many Americans. You claim that he sees Illegal immigration and is honest about it. However his only idea to stop illegal immigration would be to build a wall and deport illegals. This idea is highly unrealistic, as the wall would cost an estimated four hundred billion dollars, which would be a terrible idea considering the United States" extreme nineteen trillion dollar debt. [1] Trump also intends to deport 11 million people in the United States? I don"t think so. Not only would this idea be extremely expensive considering our debt, but it would take almost our entire task force to get the job done in a reasonable amount of time. Would he be able to deport some illegals? Yes, but all 11 million? Absolutely not, especially considering our current government spending. Deporting Illegals and Muslims would be financially unrealistic, and is not nearly as easy as Trump makes it out to be.
 
 Contention 1: Trump would make a poor president because he would have awful decision making, which would end up compromising our relationships with other nations. Ted Cruz, a senator and credited politician while talking about how Trump would be unfit to be president said that we might "wake up one morning and Trump had bombed Denmark"(Cruz, 1) Trump targets and discriminates against people of Mexican heritage which would compromise our continental relationship with Mexico. Trump had said recently that a judge was unfit to be a judge because of his Mexican heritage, despite the fact that the judge was born in America and a citizen of the United States. These irrational remarks are pieces of evidence showing how Trump as president will destroy our relationships with other countries.
 
 Citations: http://www.alternet.org... 
 
  http://www.politico.com... 
 
  http://www.cnn.com...