https://www.debate.org/debates/Chopsticks-are-better-than-forks/1/

TITLE: Chopsticks are better than forks

CATEGORY: Society

Hi, I would like to first say that I always use chopsticks when I eat at legit asian restaurants, especially sushi. I have nothing against chopsticks, and I think both chopsticks and forks have their advantages and disadvantages, but I do disagree with Pro's position because I beleive forks are overall better than chopsticks. 
 
   Rebuttals to Pro's arguments for chopsticks.  
 
  "They allow for a more precise manipulation of food" 
 
  I completely disagree. But I would like for Pro to first give an example of this claim. 
 
 
  "A frequent user can use chopsticks to pick up food at once at least as much as one can with a fork" 
 
  This does not demonstrate that chopsticks are superior to forks at all. A frequent chopstick user is as good as an 8 year old fork user. 
 
 
  "They are easier to produce, maintain and dispose" 
 
  I agree. This is one of the few advantages that chopsticks have over forks. But we have is it enough to overcome the superiority of forks when it comes to functionality? I don't think so. 
 
  "Believe it or not, chopsticks can be used to cut (or split) some food, which is hard with a lone fork. " 
 
  I believe it, I've done it. I've also done it with a lone fork, and it's way easier. Try cutting thick piece of pork or beef with chopsticks and tell me that its not easier with a fork. 
 
  "A lone chopstick can be used to pierce a larger snack food, such as baked/boiled corn, potatoes, etc." 
 
  So can a lone fork. Again, this does not show that chopsticks are better, only that they are adequate. 
 
 
  "One does not even need to explain how handy it is to already have sticks, when need arises, while forks are just forks. The only need for a fork arises when it's a mealtime." 
 
  What other needs arise that requires chopsticks? Forks can be used for plenty of other things, which I will discuss later on. 
 
 
   My arguments on why forks are superior to chopsticks  
 
  1. Forks are easier to learn - This is the only one that I'll be using from the ones that you mentioned. This is a legitimate argument for forks' superiority. A person who used chopsticks all his/her life can transition to using forks way easier than a person who is transitioning from using forks to chopsticks. Forks are also easier to use with either hand. Most chopstick users can only use chopsticks with one hand. 
 
  2. Anything chopsticks can do, forks can do, most of the time better - There is nothing that chopsticks can do that forks can not, when it comes manipulating food, which is their primary function.  
 
  3. There are things that forks can do that chopsticks can not (efficiently or at all) 
     a. Chopsticks can not be efficiently used when it comes to eating steaks. Especially since you most likely have to use your off hand and use your dominant hand to cut with the knife. 
     b. Forks can keep holding food even when you let go of the fork. The fork's spikes can keep food attached to the fork even when you let go of the fork. Not possible with chopsticks. 
     c. Forks are more practical and efficient when it comes to eating cakes.  
     d. If you have only a fork or chopsticks as your options to eat ice cream (not melted) a fork would be the better option. 
 
  4. It perforates plastic easier (like for those tv dinners) 
 
  5. Eating small bits of food like corn or peas is way easier with fork since you can use still kinda scoop them. With chopsticks your are forced to eat them one pea at at time. 
 
 
  So overall, forks are definitely the superior eating utensil over chopsticks. 
 
 
 