https://www.debate.org/debates/Society-needs-a-Serial-Killer-like-Dexter-Morgan/1/

TITLE: Society needs a Serial Killer like Dexter Morgan

CATEGORY: Society

I thank Pro for their opening argument.
 
 I won't challenge pros contention about crime stats or unsolved crimes, suffice to say crime happens and unsolved crimes exist. I doubt what exactly the stats are will become an issue in this debate.
 
  TAX MONEY NOT WASTED 
 
 Any system will cost money. A justice system is no different.
 
 Now unto my arguments......
 
  1) Dexter is one sick puppy 
 
 Although Pro presents Dexter as some kind of high minded vigilante, Pro conveniently leaves out some dark disturbing facts about Dexter. Dexter doesn't kill as a means to an end, but rather Dexter kills because he has a strong over whelming uncontrollable desire to "kill", this is often referred to by Dexter as his dark passenger......"Originally, the Dark Passenger was Dexter's way of naming the "desire to kill" that's buried into his body. This Dark Passenger is always trying to claim him, wanting him to kill but he keeps it at bay with a high level of control...and instead of focusing his kills on innocents, only uses it on those he knows are guilty (and have their own passengers)." [1]
 
 Lets be clear here, the MAIN reason that Dexter kills the bad guys is NOT to satisfy some hunger for justice, but rather as a way to satisfy his hunger to kill. Justice and killing bad guys is just the rationalization he gives himself in order to do what he does.
 
 In order to emphasis this point consider what wikipedia says... Dexter structures his killing around "Harry's code", a body of ethics and procedures devised by his adoptive father Harry Morgan (who was a Miami cop) to make sure Dexter never gets caught and to ensure that Dexter kills only other killers. Harry also trained Dexter in how to interact convincingly with other people despite his dissociative mental illness, which Harry believed to be psychopathy, arising from Dexter witnessing the brutal murder of his biological mother, Laura Moser. [2]
 
 You will notice that any sense of justice or morals for Dexter kills, is only because his adoptive parent recognized Dexters drive to kill, and would become a serial killer no matter what. So rather than try and stop the killing, Harry tries to channel this desire to kill into some sort of moral frame work, as well as teaching him how not to get caught for his kills.
 
 Once again, Dexter does not kill for justice, he kills because he has an over whelming desire to kill. Having a person or persons such as Dexter roaming around, is not only unnecessary, but a really really bad idea. Giving a person like Dexter the green light to kill, is handing over the asylum to the inmates.
 
  2) A Dexter like person is against our modern principles of justice 
 
 Dexter is law maker, judge, jury, police and executioner.
 
 There is a reason why in the western world, the various powers of the state are broken up into different institutions and different offices. In Dexters world, he makes the law, he decides the rules of evidence, he decides who is guilty and he of course does the killing. Yes in Dexters world he never makes a mistake, but in television land he is granted those super detective powers. In the real world a real Dexter will make mistakes, just like the rest of us. There is no appeals in the court of Dexter.
 
 Sure this is alot cheaper than having a justice system that we are familiar with in the western world, but Dexter's justice isn't really a justice system, its something at his own personal whims.
 
  3) The long term consequences of allowing a Dexter to run around are overwhelming negative 
 
 In order for a Dexter to operate in real life, a sick puppy is taken of the leash, and the principles of modern justice are thrown out the window, not only is this not necessary, its just a plain bad idea.
 
 I look forward to Pros reply.
 
 Sources 
 
 [1]  http://dexter.wikia.com... 
 [2]  http://en.wikipedia.org...