https://www.debate.org/debates/Is-the-United-States-of-America-Sexist/1/

TITLE: Is the United States of America Sexist?

CATEGORY: Society

Now I do agree that women do not have a lot of government jobs, but it is that they are not applying for them. When you look at the jobs most commonly held by women you can see that they clearly go for more caretaker type careers. Economists sometimes call these "pink-collar jobs" because the positions have long been dominated by women. However these are just jobs that women happen to dominate (nursing, teaching, counselling, etc.). Instead let's look at the degrees women and men go for, you'll notice something again, a large number of men go for more profitable degrees (though both go for Business Master Degrees, women do not go for the political bachelor degrees in the way men do). Let me reiterate, women are more prone to not only dominate in social and care-giving careers, they also tend to gravitate more towards degrees of a similar nature. The second most popular master's degree for women is education, the most popular for bachelor degrees is psychology. Bachelor degrees for political science and government aren't even on the list for most popular degrees for women.
 Furthermore, while it is true that women do not have equal representation in government jobs (and as we've established that has nothing to do with sexism and everything to do with personal choice) having equality in job representation does not make a country good for women. You noted Pakistan, a country renowned for its violence towards women, honor killings and when you hear something out of Pakistan involving women it is rarely good news. You mentioned Afganistan, once more a country not known as a paradise for women's rights or safety, however unlike Pakistan (though violence against women still remains high) women's rights are somewhat improving, but that doesn't change the innate violence and oppression women suffer from there. Then you mention Uganda, this country is considered to have very traditional gender roles and once again violence and sexual assault are incredibly prevalent. Let me clarify another thing, these country's have never really been good for women, America has always held a respect for women which is why for a long time they were considered fragile and in need of protection, these other countries view women as inferior, regardless of how many women are in their governments.
 While I agree more women should be involved in the US government, the reason they aren't is because they don't feel they need to. In those other countries, the ones you listed, women's rights are so set back that they would make the American colonists cringe. I feel that although you bring up a good point, it doesn't show a sexist America, if anything it proves the opposite, women are free to do as they wish, they can make their own choices and don't feel they have to go into government to advocate for their rights, because they already have those rights. Women in the Middle East and many African countries are subjected to strict laws and real oppression including gender subjugation. They are considered inferior. In the US you would be hard pressed to find a man or other women (because don't doubt those women in government in those countries aren't advocating for things like Sharia law) who genuinely believe women are inferior.
 That is all for now, I will let you choose the next topic of discussion, I would like to speak about some of the many claims that women are considered inferior in American culture or perhaps the assertions that we live in a rape culture but again I'll leave that up to you. I very much thank you for joining into this debate and I appreciate you sharing your views with me, having open discussions like these is very enjoyable and really opens my mind to opposing views. Thank you again.
 Sources:
 Women Dominated Jobs-  http://www.businessinsider.com... 
  https://www.dol.gov... 
 Degrees chosen by Men and Women-  https://www.collegeatlas.org... 
 Pakistan and Honor Killings-  https://mdp.berkeley.edu... 
 Women in Pakistan-  https://en.wikipedia.org... 
 Women in Afghanistan-  https://en.wikipedia.org... 
 Women in Uganda-  https://en.wikipedia.org...