https://www.debate.org/debates/Should-we-replace-the-Constitution-with-the-Bible-as-the-official-document-for-US-Law/1/

TITLE: Should we replace the Constitution with the Bible as the official document for US Law?

CATEGORY: Society

I'll try not to get into an all out theology war, but let me address a couple of things you said.
 
 First off, the definition of misogyny is the hatred of women by men. I wish to show that the Bible shows no such contempt or even hatred towards women. The first verse you brought up was 1Corinthians 11:3. We need to first realize that the Bible is pretty clear that Men and Women are both created equal in the image of God. Galatians 3:28 states that there is neither Jew nor Greek, Bond nor free, Male nor Female for we are all one in Christ. Scripture is clear that we're all equal, but that doesn't mean we don't have different roles. God said that men would be in authority over women and would work to love and care for their wives and children, while the Wives would care for their husbands and nurture their kids. This form of society has worked well for thousands of years and it gave honor to both men and women. It works similar to how we Christians view God. Scripture states that God the Father and God the Son are equal and both given honor and Worship and yet they have different roles. Just as Christ submitted to his Father and did his Will by spilling his blood on the cross, so are women following in the steps of the Savior by submitting to their husbands. And just as Christ was exalted after this, so will the women.
 
 The next verse you brought up was Genesis 3:16 where Eve is punished by saying her husband will rule over her and she will painfully bear children. But what we also see is that God also punished the Man. He said "Cursed is the Ground for you sake, in sorrow you shall eat of it all the days of your life. Thorns and thistles it will bring forth and you shall eat of the herbs of the field all the days of your life. In the sweat of your face shall you eat bread for your whole life. For you are dust and dust shall you return." Now we see that both Man and Woman were punished for their Rebellion, after all we are equal. But the Sin nature itself came through Adam since he was in authority over his wife and he was held responsible.
 
 1 Corinthians 11:7-9 goes back to 11:3 I suppose so it's just my recap.
 
 Mathew 5:31-32- It seems you forget that the man sinned by causing his wife to commit adultery, and also the man who marries her is guilty of adultery as well.
 
 Well I understand your concern about homosexuality, but if a government of men says it's wrong, but the God says it's wrong then I'll stick with God.( If you want we can have a debate of whether Christianity is true or not)
 In the Old Testament we were under the Law, but now we are under Grace. The law is to tell us what sin is but we are saved by Grace.
 
 I will admit that soon enough you'd have a non Christian leader get in their and get rid of the Bible, but this happens to every document including the Constitution does it not.
 
 Thanks and I'll turn it over to you.