https://www.debate.org/debates/Anarcho-capitalism-is-the-right-form-of-government/1/

TITLE: Anarcho-capitalism is the right form of government

CATEGORY: Politics

Hi, I would like to thank you for letting me share my first debate argument here on debate.org. I believe anarcho-capitalism to be the right form of government, as it is not only possible to execute, but necessary in our America era of Big Government. I want to start off telling you all why government is harmful. First off, government imposes one world view on 100% of the populace, just because of the views of 51%. Many times not even 51% of the populace agree with the government, because once government officials are elected they make unpopular decisions, and the electoral college allows for less than 50% of the people to vote for the winning presidential candidate. There is no reason for everyone to be governed by everyone else, because the everyone else is a group of individuals, and individuals can govern themselves. Say for example that 60% of the population wants to ban abortion. But that is their decision for themselves as independent adults and often as strangers from the other 40%. One may argue that there is a need for a cultural unity, but culture is a personal matter, not a matter of the government. Culture is a matter of friends and family, people willing to buy popular culture that resonates with their unheard voice of suffering, and provides entertainment when needed. Now I will get to the matter of how this will work. I will start with defense. under anarcho-capitalism, individuals and groups pay for private defense agencies to protect them and their property. In order for this this to work, the private defense agencies have to get their act together if they are to make money, because there is plenty of competition for the consumer to choose from. If a company of other sorts wants to make money, they must do the same thing. If all the companies get together and say they will work together to make money at the expense of the consumer's physical health, the people will revolt with the aid of their defense agencies. This is unlike the system of politics under government, where one group has a monopoly of power based on feelings in addition to actual concerns, such as physical health and property rights, and through coercion, which means they can do anything they please so as long as they can deceive the people. Now, I will turn my focus to the environment. It is actually because of government regulation that pollution is happening so much. Companies will wish to preserve the land they own so they can reap more long-term benefit from it, unlike when it is state owned, where the government lays waste to it because of its inefficiency. In addition, pollution affects people's property rights as well, such as when smog causes lung cancer and asthma attacks, but due to the alliance between government and business, which is equally responsible in this case, this is allowed. Now I will pay attention to the issue of poor people gaining access to services. We often forget that people are charitable, and that the collective can pay for defense agencies as a neighborhood, city, etc. Others will say that unionization will be prevented as a result of letting companies run everything. However, they fail to realize that they are making an association with the historical physical attacks on striking workers with the ban on unionization by THE GOVERNMENT, when this is actually against anarcho-capitalist ideology, since one's labor belongs to him, and no one else, and is thus his property.