https://www.debate.org/debates/Are-there-Actually-Rules-of-War/1/

TITLE: Are there Actually Rules of War?

CATEGORY: Society

"No matter who breaks that rule, they should be punished if captured."
 
 Congrats. I just won the war. Who is going to punish me for blowing up every red cross from here to my enemies base?
 
 "when they are captured they are punished for it (if their deeds can be proved). "
 
 Again, i order my soldiers to specifically destroy enemy medical camps to lower my enemies morale. I win the war because of it. Who is going to punish me?
 
 "The Government of one's own army will (should) initiate a punishment of sorts upon the soldier who does fire at will."
 
 This is assuming that a government is involved. What about Dictatorships? Do they not count? Have we eradicated all such regimes in favor of democratic elected governments? Are these governments the only countries having war? Your assumption is unsubstantiated and unfounded.
 
 "It is also prohibited to shoot at an unarmed carrier of the white flag."
 
 Again, if i win, who will punish me? Especially if i am winning, i might choose to accept the opponents unconditional surrender, but that is still my choice. I can easily choose not to accept the surrender, and choose to annihilate my opponent from the face of the earth. Infact, they have a name for this. Its called "No quarter".
 
 "they are disciplined without the use of 'cruel and unusual punishment' by our soldiers."
 
 Abu ghraib. Guantanamo Bay. These alone disprove this argument right there.
 
 "Torture is not a legal tactic of any United Nations member's conventional Army."
 
 Oh please.(1)(2)
 
 Where are your laws now?
 
 "however, any member of the UN needs to abide by these rules."
 
 Piff. The USA is apart of the UN, last time i checked.
 
 "Thus, as summary I have set forth many examples of actual laws and rules of war, in which my opponent will find it nearly impossible to negate since they are concrete and evident."
 
 Okay. Let me write my conclusion.
 
 My opponents arguments seem to rely on this omnipotent military force that governs the world. Therefore, if you break one of these rules, this military force will come and take your children away. However, in reality, there is no rule or law in war. If you can get away with it, and if you can win with it, and if you will lose without it, no government, dictator or despot will hesitate to use it. If a country has nothing to lose and everything to gain, it will easily and quickly use any measure to ensure its survival, or ensure its opponents destruction.
 
 Now, I shall leave you with a few quotes...
 
 "I have no doubt that if an actual ticking bomb situation were to arise, our law enforcement authorities would torture. The real debate is whether such torture should take place outside of our legal system or within it. The answer to this seems clear: If we are to have torture, it should be authorized by the law."
 
 "In war, there is no such thing as a cheap shot."
 
 Source:
 1.  http://en.wikipedia.org... 
 2.  http://en.wikipedia.org...