https://www.debate.org/debates/Religion-of-Barack-Obama-being-or-not-being-Islamic-doesnt-matter/1/

TITLE: Religion of Barack Obama being [or not being] Islamic doesnt matter!

CATEGORY: Society

I'm going to begin this round by pointing out to you that what you just described is the very definition of genocide and ethnic cleansing. By your own claim you, you are 1/32nd Cherokee. This is also a part of ethnic cleansing, you yourself are a legacy of a ethnicity being obliterated in its final hours as every generation contains less and less "blood" of the targeted people. While the genocide and ethnic cleansing were not complete, the effects there of have almost completely destroyed the civilizations of the native nations. While you claim blood, or descent from the Cherokee, my guess is that you practice very few of their cultural observances, know none of their language, history, or practices. And this is where your own religion might matter, because the Cherokee were heathens and for you to show reverence to your ancestors, and the spirits which they themselves revered is typically frowned on.
 
 Perhaps you could benefit yourself with a quick education on the "Trail of Tears", which pertains to your own "blood." The Cherokee nation originally was based in Georgia. Someone, Andrew Jackson, decided that even though the Cherokee had become about as anglicized as possible, many of them even becoming Christian, that they had to be forced off of their land because of a rumor of there being gold in them there hills. And, many of them voluntarily moved. Then they were sent on this little long march to settle in Oklahoma, which for some reason involved them stopping in Nebraska along the way. It's not called the trail of tears because it was a happy little romp through the nation's country side.
 
 Now to the thesis of the debate…
 
 I was actually referring to Christianity. The Hebrew people have been waiting for their Messiah for a while, and they've actually become pretty patient and unpresuming about it. The Christians in theory are waiting for the "return' of their Messiah. Which most of them thought was going to happen pretty soon, and in the education of fundamentalism in Christianity, they basically attempt to give the impression that it's just around the corner.
 
 While you might prepare yourself in the final days by seeking attonement, perhaps you are not of the religious belief that after you perform a series of steps that you are "saved," and do not have to worry about your fate any longer. This, of course, is the sin of presumption, but no one seems to talk about the fact that it's a blasphemy of the holy spirit, which seems to be one of the only things not forgiven. Many of these "saved" individuals believe that before the end times even begin, the "true believers" will be plucked from the Earth by god like roses, leaving the daisies and violets to suffer the seven trials and tribulations.
 
 A person with this belief should not be trusted with a long term planning of a government, people, or race. This is one very good example as to why religion matters. If you cannot foresee your nation existing in 400 years because you think the world and final judgment is coming within your life time, then you can do nothing to ensure that your nation might be around for 400 years. If you decide that the most important part of education is the spiritual salvation of a person, because this final judgment is coming, perhaps they will not learn the history they will need to guide them through their generation's sovereignty of the nation. Or the science, math, or anything else to justify our self appointed status of super power.
 
 While the Constitution offers a right of religious freedom, it does not mean that it grants our leaders the ability to completely turn off their religious views. Often times the morality of a person is not directly linked to their justifications of that morality. I live my life as a pragmatist before anything else, so I understand that morality is very fluid. Yet often times when someone decides that something is "wrong", they do so without considering whether what is "wrong" is a good idea.
 
 Belief does matter. Often times it is one of the first things people will use to define themselves. Many times it is something a person uses to justify their existence. Whether Christian or Muslim, it cannot be cut from a person's life. I have absolutely no beliefs, and I am still strapped to a cultural construct where to express myself adequately I must evoke a blasphemy to a god that I don't care exists.
 
 Another fine example is that if you believe the rights which we enjoy actually come from God, and therefore God is watching out for them, perhaps you're not doing enough to protect these rights.