https://www.debate.org/debates/anarchist-communism-could-deal-with-a-zombie-apocalypse-better-than-my-opponents-ideal-society/1/

TITLE: anarchist communism could deal with a zombie apocalypse better than my opponents ideal society

CATEGORY: Politics

I thank my opponent for starting off the debate. Before I continue on to my arguments, I would first like to point out flaws in my opponents case.
 
 In his first point, he says that the zombies could be dealt with without having to rely on a military and political command in small individual community. However, in the event of a zombie apocalypse, the order of military and political command is what will save us, as demonstrated in democracy. How? Without the law and order of martial law (which will almost certainly be implemented) citizens will have the ability to do what they want. How many will make a brave stand against hordes of living corpses? How many will instead loot shops and run off with as much as they can, fleeing from the undead? Clearly, without the command of the military and the government, the entire country would fall into disarray.
 
 In his second point, he mentions the International Brigade and how the entire world would come to the rescue. However, the same thing is achievable through diplomatic relations with other countries, such as promises of military support in the event of war or similar catastrophes. Secondly, he claims that these troops would come because of "mutual aid" which is a baseline in anarcho-communism. However, mutual means both parties are benefiting. The country that is being rescued would benefit, but what about the saviors? They would only lose troops to the zombies, who would then become more zombies. I doubt any countries will ride in as the cavalry because of mutual aid, but because they have to.
 
 In his third point, he talks about MoP and how workers can change production to defend themselves. Firstly, not every worker is a master of all trades. Sure they could switch production, but the help would be very limited. You want to forge ammunition? Sure, if you knew how.
 
 I will now move on to the benefits of democracy in the event of a zombie apocalypse.
 
 1. The military
 2. Order
 3. Focused development
 
 1. THE MILITARY
 The government (which is a democracy) has an army, ready to deploy at a moments notice. These are trained men who know how to fight. The military has access to planes, ships, tanks, and various others that would tip the scale in the favour of humans. However, in anarcho-communism the army doesn't exist any more and a professional fighters working coherently is gone. Now, we have individuals panicking who most likely don't know how to operate a firearm. Clearly, the military would prove a huge asset in the event of a zombie apocalypse. A mob of the untrained is no more an army than a pile of sticks is a house.
 
 2. ORDER
 Martial law and a government would prevent unruliness from occurring in affected States. This prevents a complete breakdown and utter panic. A frightened panicked mob might riot, destroying the city and fleeing, instilling hopelessness into others. Order will maintain peace and prevent a total pandemic of fear.
 
 3. FOCUSED DEVELOPMENT
 In WW2 the Americans cranked out 5 planes a minute. With a centralized, focused government, we could achieve such rates again. Anarcho communism would present no such bonuses as everyone would just be making whatever they felt like which wouldn't help the war effort.
 
 Vote Con.