https://www.debate.org/debates/Evolution-is-a-strongly-supported-fact-of-science./1/

TITLE: Evolution is a strongly supported fact of science.

CATEGORY: Science

During this round, I will be asking 10 questions and including explanations to prove that there are many holes in the "Theory", and therefore show that not only is evolution not well supported, but is a JOKE. I will also be brining up some frequently used evidence to support evolution and pointing out holes in them. I will start out will my questions, and the source(s) will be below them.
 1. How was the first cell created?
 Many evolutionists may try to argue that chemicals came together to make the first cell, but this is completely false. For the right chemicals, at the right time, to be somehow drawn to each other, and come together to create the first cell, is highly improbable. To quote Edwin Conklin, a biologist, "The probability of life originating from accident is comparable to the probability of the unabridged dictionary resulting from an explosion in a printing shop." The belief that life created itself is not only ridiculous, but a contradiction, as many biologists will tell you that cells can only come from other cells. Also the chances for this cell that has just been exposed to a foreign environment to survive, are once again, slim.
  http://deeptruths.com...  ___ See life from non-life
 2. How can evolutionists explain the complexity of the genetic code?
 To quote my source, "As scientists began to decode the human DNA molecule, they found something quite unexpected"an exquisite 'language' composed of some 3 billion genetic letters. "One of the most extraordinary discoveries of the twentieth century," says Dr. Stephen Meyer, director of the Center for Science and Culture at the Discovery Institute in Seattle, Wash., "was that DNA actually stores information"the detailed instructions for assembling proteins"in the form of a four-character digital code" If evolution were a "Fact Of Science", then how would you explain the complexity of the genetic code? It is truly fascinating, and many evolutionists will also tell you that the complexity of this code is obviously too great to have started out at nothing, and randomly mutate into the complex perfection that it is now.
  http://www.ucg.org... 
 3. How did different sexes originate?
 If evolution is true, then why do we have two sexes? This is one of the hardest questions for evolutionists to answer, since it is obvious that asexual reproduction is much faster then sexual reproduction, what is the advantage to sexual reproduction? Also, if we were all to start of from asexual cells, then HOW did both genders end up so similar? This puts a huge flaw in the theory, and I would like to hear my opponents thoughts on this.
  http://www.trueorigin.org... 
 4. Where is the evolutionary tree for insects?
 There is a huge gap in the evolutionary tree for insects, as you probably know. So, why have we not found the missing links between non winged insects and winged insects? It pokes a huge hole in evolution, since the evolutionary tree forgets about insects almost altogether, so, where did insects come from?
  http://blogs.sciencemag.org... 
 5. What did humans get first, the heart, the blood vessels or the blood?
 Though I have no source for this, it is still a question that should make you think: If evolution is true, then how could transitional creatures survive? We all know that humans have organs and systems that are completely necessary for our survival, and each organ and system relies on one another. So, what did we gain first, the heart, blood vessels or the blood? Without just one, the creature would die, and the mathematical chances of all of these traits being adapted at the same time is once more, slim. The same could be asked about many systems in our body such as what came first, the ability to use oxygen, our lungs, or the ability to pull oxygen into our lungs?
 6. Which came first, DNA or the proteins needed by DNA--which can only be produced by DNA?
 This question may be answered by saying that RNA replicated DNA which in turn made proteins. If that is true, then how did RNA come to be? If you say that it is made up of nucleotide, then what formed that?
 7. Can evolution explain the complexity of the giraffe?
 There are many creatures that, "Defy Evolution", one being the giraffe. To quote my source, "Because the neck of the Giraffe extends so high into the air, the heart must contain an extraordinarily strong pump to force the blood from the lower body to the highest reaches of the brain. Thus, the first capability unique to the giraffe is a heart that is also a most powerful pump.
 However, when the giraffe lowers its neck to drink, the blood that is circulating in its neck will suddenly come rushing down by the force of gravity. This sudden rush of blood is so strong, it would quickly cause the giraffe to suffer a brain aneurysm, killing the animal instantly. Therefore, the second capability is that spigots are built into his neck arteries that instantly close down whenever the animal lowers its neck to drink water.
 However, when the giraffe abruptly raises its head after drinking, the blood would flow so rapidly downward through the force of gravity that the animal would suffer a sudden loss of blood to the brain, thus causing him to pass out cold. However, God has built a third capability that prevents this from occurring. The brain has a sponge-like material just behind the brain that has gradually been absorbing blood all the time the giraffe has been drinking. When the giraffe suddenly raises his head, that blood very slowly drains out of the brain, thus keeping the giraffe from passing out, while the spigots open up and the blood begins to flow naturally. Three very complicated, but cooperating capabilities had to come together at once in the giraffe. These systems could never have evolved, since not only are they complex, but not all three systems could have possibly been acquired at the same time.
  http://www.cuttingedge.org... 
 8. Why can we find DNA on fossils that are supposedly billions of years old?
 Proving the Earth is young would disprove the theory all together, and one huge piece of evidence that proves a young Earth is DNA on fossils. We know that DNA can only survive for 10,000 years or less, so why can we find DNA on fossils?
  http://creation.com... 
 9. If the solar system evolved, then why do some planets spin backwards?
 If our solar system evolved from the same material, then they should have many similarities. That being said, why does Pluto, Venus, Uranus and over 30 moons spin backwards?
  http://www.creationscience.com... 
 10. Why does Second Law of Thermodynamics say that things become less ordered and eventually reaching a steady-state over time?
 According to this law, things will basically become less ordered and eventually reach a steady state such as a glass of hot water reaching room temp, a sun exploding over time, and buildings decaying. But, the theory of evolution proposes that over time things, on their own, became more ordered and structured. Some primary examples are the genetic code and the formation of the stars.
  http://www.bestbiblescience.org... 
 Next, I will be going over the lack of evidence supporting evolution. I have a limited amount of words, so I cannot ramble on about it, but i will provide as much information as possible before I run out of characters.
 I would like to start out with the flaws in the evolutionary tree. I have already pointed out that there is a lack of a tree for insects, but not yet animals. Way back in the evolutionary tree, there is something called the Cambrian Explosion. In this time, there was rapid diversification, wand it was a relatively short period. Before this period, there was organisms with small amounts of cells, or fairly simple organisms altogether. All of the sudden, organisms like trilobites came about, which contained hundreds of THOUSANDS of cells! This is a huge gap in the evolutionary tree, and it happens throughout it, though not as drastically as in the Cambrian Explosion.
  http://blogs.ch.cam.ac.uk... 
 Next, I would like to go over vestigial organs and how this does not prove evolution. I would like to start out by saying that just because we do not know the meaning of an organ, does not mean it is vestigial. If you were to take that organ out, and not die, that also does not mean that it is vestigial, as you can take kidney's out of our body without dying, and we know that kidneys are not useless.
  http://www.evolutionnews.org... 
 Both of these are commonly referred to evidences as proof that evolution happened, but as you can see, they are flawed evidences. I look forward to my opponents rebuttal to all of this information, and wish him the best of luck for the rest of the debate.