https://www.debate.org/debates/Serving-in-the-military-does-more-harm-than-good./1/

TITLE: Serving in the military does more harm than good.

CATEGORY: Society

Thanks to F-16 for continuing this very informative debate. I hope my opponent has learned just as much as I have form this round.
 
 As per format, I will only refute my opponent's case in this round.
 
  
 C1: Risk of injury 
 
 Despite stereotypes, the military is relatively risk-free. Pro claims that 50,000 people have died in the War on Terror. However, only 6,000 of these are military casualties (1). 
 
 Lets find an actual percent chance of death. Over 1,400,000 people are in the military. 6000 have died in a span of 9 years in the War on Terror, so that's an average of 667 deaths a year. That means you have a 0.05% chance of dying. This is negligible and should not carry significant weight in this round. Additionally, Pro claims that 1200 servicemen suffer amputations. This is 0.1%. There's a one in a thousand chance of this happening. 
 
 Also, most servicemen aren't anywhere near danger zones. Between Iraq and Afghanistan, we have about 150,000 troops in these areas, which is only a tenth of our military force. So chances are, you won't even be sent overseas, let alone shot or killed. 
 
 
  C2: PTSD 
 
 My opponent says that 5-15% of servicemen suffer PTSD. However, Psychology Today indicates that 8% of people in general will suffer from it(2). So the chances of getting PTSD are no greater in the military than they are in regular civilian life.
 
 The military also offers counseling for soldiers who've seen some nasty stuff. For instance, soldiers returning from Iraq are required to meet with a psychologist to help them deal with what they've been through (3). So while some soldiers suffer psychological trauma, mandatory counseling helps several of them recover.
 
 Also, my opponents source 5 indicates that the Army is accountable for 67% of PTSD cases that do occur. The alternative then would be to just join the Navy or Marines, which would make this risk even smaller.
 
 
  C3A: Cannot choose the war 
 
 Remember that 90% of troops don't even go to war, so this is another exception. Then you take the 10% of people who ARE fighting, assume that 50% of them are against the war (though this number is probably much lower), and you have a 5% chance of this disadvantage actually applying. 
 
 
  SPB: Creativity 
 
 Every job has a strict chain of command, not just the military. All workers have to do what their boss or superior tells them, lest they be fired. For instance, if a patrol officer disobeys the county sheriff, he will be written up and punished accordingly. There is nothing wrong with this system. My opponent would have you think that having to obey a superior at all times is "stifling creativity". Whether or not you think this is true, it happens in every job, so its not a reason to reject the military.
 
 
  C4: Sexual misconduct 
 
 According to Sexual Harassment Law Firms, " anywhere between 40-70% of women and 10-20% of men have experienced sexual harassment in the (average) workplace . (4)" By comparison, 56% and 12% in the military is fairly good. The stats show that you are actually safer from sexual harassment in the military than you are in regular civilian life.
 
 Also, my opponent suggests that 3000 servicepeople are raped every year. However, out of the 1,400,000 people in the military, this is about 0.2% of the military population. So this is yet again, another minuscule exception.
 
 
  C5: Delay of veteran benefits 
 
 I'd like to point out that his source is only for the delay of college tuition, not benefits in general, so the impact here is very limited. 
 
 His source on this is from 2009. However, the GI Bill that gives these veterans benefits has been reformed drastically since early 2011 (5). His criticism is of a bill that no longer exists.
 
 
  C6: Dishonorable discharge 
 
 My opponent admits in the comments that the percent of people who are dishonorable discharged is "not too many", making this another exception. Keep in mind that in order to receive a dishonorable discharge, you either have to 1. Kill someone, 2. Rape someone, 3. Take hard drugs, or 4. Commit various types of robbery and fraud (6). As long as you don't plan on committing any felonies during the tenure in the military, there's not a problem here. 
 
 My opponent's source does indeed say that cowardice can be punished with death (lol?). I'm not sure if this is a typo or what, but I am pretty sure that this is never actually enforced.
 
 
  Conclusion 
 
 I'll close by saying that five of my opponent's six arguments are extremely rare exceptions. For instance, he wants people to not join the military for the 0.05% chance of dying, the 0.02% chance of rape, and the 0.08% chance of being amputated. The other disadvantages, such as sexual harassment and PTSD, are just as likely to happen in regular civilian life. Dishonorable discharge only happen to servicemen who commit felonies, which is probably a small minority as well. The only consistent criticism is that some soldiers might get delayed college benefits. However, this program has been reformed drastically since the year of my opponent's evidence, so this doesn't apply either.
 
 In comparison, the economic, employment, and health advantages of joining the military occur almost 100% of the time. All service crew are paid at least 50,000 with no house or utility payment, all members who don't commit crimes will get employment advantages, and everyone gets retirement and medical help, as well as physical conditioning. 
 
 
  I wish my opponent luck in his final round.
 
 
 1.  http://siadapp.dmdc.osd.mil... 
 2.  http://www.psychologytoday.com... 
 3.  http://abcnews.go.com... 
 4.  http://www.sexualharassmentlawfirms.com... 
 5.  http://military-education.military.com... 
 6.  http://www.ehow.com...