https://www.debate.org/debates/Resolved-The-United-States-Federal-Government-should-ban-the-Confederate-Flag-in-all-50-states./1/

TITLE: Resolved: The United States Federal Government should ban the Confederate Flag in all 50 states.

CATEGORY: Politics

I thank my opponent for such a speedy response and today I will be refuting my opponent's Opening arguments while I will end up refute my opponent's R2 in my final round.
 
  Contention 1: CSA Flag is Racist
 
  My opponent comes in and immidiately slams the Confederate Flag stating that it's racist and people think it's racist. Though these things are simply false when we are all biased. Here we have to look at it through John Rawls Veil of Ignorance. Here one must look through Rawl's Veil of Ignorance. In order to do that one's creed, race, sex, religion, political views, and generation does not matter. This in in order to eliminate bias from the viewer in order to view his two principles of Difference and Equality. The Equality Principle is that the greatest extent of Liberty for everyone. The other states that it must benefit everyone, including the least advantaged, must be open to everyone, and your enemy chooses your position in that society or scenario. [1] Under this we get rid of all of these things and we can see that all there is is the individual's right to fly a flag or even more simply a piece of cloth with a pattern on it. At this point one can see that under the Equality Prinicple everyone can be able to fly ANY flag of their choice. Now this can be any flag from the LBGT to the Soviet Flag. Under this it meets the Equality Prinicple as under this we are giving everyone the greatest amount of liberty possible while my opposition would reduce this violating the Equality Prinicple which is something that she even pushes. Now for the Difference Principle. With this great amount of speech we can see that it's extention can be used as a key for the furtherment of a free soceity. If we take this away it begins to take us down the Road to Serfdom and we will all just be slaves to an omnipotent government. This is something that benefits everyone by giving everyone the ability to express themselves. Remember that this debate is a total ban, not just a public ban. This means that people will also lose property rights by not being able to own a flag. Under my argument we can see that this benefits everyone and under this soceity even if your enemy gets to choose your place the soceity that I have described is a better place to live and your enemy wouldn't be able to do much while the soceity that my opponent is attempting to build is way more oppressive. We can see here that with the Philosophy of John Rawls this is an ethical practice when we rid ourselves of the bias that soceity insumes we get the real lense and why the status quo is the correct way to go while if we go down my opponent's path we will be worse off and we will be having our Constitutional Rights stripped away.
 
  Contention 2: CSA Flag, the flag of the enemy.
 
  My opponent calls the Confederate Flag a symbol of the enemy, because people died for it, but if the CSA flag stands for Racism, slavery, etc... Then the US flag deserve the same amount of blame. The reason being this can be anything from the Union still having slavery in the boarder states. Even when Lincoln passed the Declaration Proclamation many of the Northerns deserted as they didn't want to free the slaves. [2] Or how Lincoln oppressed the freedom of the press or multiple other crimes that Lincoln committed. Another key thing is we could go through history and see how evil the American flag is. From the War on the Native Americans, a phony war against Mexico, are massacring of the Phillipeanos, internment of the Japanese, the Atomic Bombings, or even any of the torturing in Gitmo. There are tons of things that demonize America and if you think that the CSA flag is bad due to the Secession then you better look in the mirror and take a glimpse of the vices of the American Flag. The fact is simply that there is no double standard and the simple fact is that the current US flag is worse than the CSA flag. Also remember that this debate is about a total ban, so with that said this entire contention is practically pointless and must be discarded as such. 
 
 
  Sources
  1. ( http://plato.stanford.edu... ) 
 2. (  http://www.mrlincolnandfreedom.org... )