https://www.debate.org/debates/Donald-trumps-threat-to-impose-a-35-tariff/1/

TITLE: Donald trump's threat to impose a 35% tariff

CATEGORY: Politics

That was an impressive, eloquent post, damming the ideals of our civil liberties, and arguing instead, for a tribal, national consciousness, disreegarding our freedom for the sake of "protection". Trotsky would be proud!!! Sorry, I wasn't aware that the job of our president is to look after the interest of all Americans, and the job of our government is to protect the poor from being exploited by the rich. How daft of me to think that the true job of the President, and our government is to protect our CIVIL LIBERTIES, not protect us from mean, nasty business savages with golden fangs. My bad!!! Boy, have I been barking up the wrong tree. There is one question I have with this new found collectivist bandwagon we're all on now, like:
 
 Does a tariff on American companies actually help manufacturing jobs from disappearing?
 
 in 1980, on average it took 25 manufacture workers to make a million dollars in a quarter, whereas now it only takes 5 workers to make a million in that same time frame. LIke it or not, automation is more of a threat to American manufacturing jobs than outsourcing is. Good ol Ronnie Trump has no policy propositions for domestic companies who layoff workers in place of machines, and if he were to impose regulations on said companies, not only would it further infringe on our civil liberties, but it would stiffle technological progress. And what of the companies who make the manufacturing machines, do we just tell them to go out of business? Perhaps, a better option for the unskilled workers, would be to further thier education. i'm not against government loans to help poeple not only gain skills, better suited for todays economy, but also increase the quality of thier lives. My opponent fails to see the problem with any depth or logic and oppts instead for a reactionary policy that only covers one aspect of a larger issue. A policy that burdens us all with higher prices for the sake of a portion of the population, and tramples our freedom as well.