https://www.debate.org/debates/Stealing-for-survival-must-not-be-punished./1/

TITLE: Stealing for survival must not be punished.

CATEGORY: Society

The rich certainly would not let the poor intimidate them in this way. Just like the police will avoid to negotiate with kidnappers or terrorists, because it shows weakness, and raises the chance for such a thing to happen again, as it has worked before. The rich would much more likely flee those cities with extreme poverty, which would literally doom those cities even further.
 
 Also, you make it sound like such an arrangement is just temporarily, until they get back on their feet, but why would they ever? Stealing a TV will all of a sudden create jobs for your entire family? No, instead you will create a nasty habit of being dependent on theft as an income.
 
 I think you overate the goodness and innocence of the extremely poor. In many countries with a lot of poverty, poor families break their young childrens" legs, just so that they can beg themselves to more money. Why would they not keep stealing and teach their children to do the same? And if they couldn"t get an education before the arrangement, they wouldn"t be able to after either, because the arrangement would only cover them as long as they were starving, it will not enrich them and give them more options in life.
 
 Even if this plan worked out, which it would not, it would be morally wrong in so many ways. There is a huge distinction between making the right choice and making a choice that would work. For example, allowing average people to legally kill all animal hunters would probably save rare animals from being extinct too, yet it is a dangerous, uncivilized and immoral way of solving the problem. Especially when there are other solutions! Just as there is in this case.
 
 Obviously extreme poverty is a terrible thing, but there is a reason why such things does not exist in Europe, and that is because our society, justice system, government and economy works. That is the reason why there is jobs for almost everyone. Not because some golden hand reached out to the poor and gave them some money, because that won"t help on a long-term basis. Therefore, what the world needs to do, and the rich within that country, is to help financing job creating activities, and create a society which then will finance itself.
 
 Short conclusion
 There is other much more humane, civilized, moral and right solutions to this terrible problem, than this one. Even so, the proposition would not actually work, as it is a too short-term vision.