https://www.debate.org/debates/The-Genesis-account-is-scientifically-viable./1/

TITLE: The Genesis account is scientifically viable.

CATEGORY: Science

Alright, long post. My very first comment will be this; you need not debate this but it is true. the more vague a statement is the more likely it is to be true as long as someone is trying to believe it. Oftentimes people take advantage of this by saying something vague and then playing prophetic as it were. Fortune tellers, psychics, and horoscopes are accurate examples.
 
 Alright I will now commence my portion of the debate. Take not that I am mostly disregarding your comments only as to keep the structure of this debate regular.
 
 As a first legitimate statement I will say this. The word you used "account" refers to someone's verbatim description of an event. an example is if someone was asked to give an account of a robbery they would not say "The sheep came in waving a stick and said bah bah black sheep and then stole the lettuce" and then when questioned further proclaims the sheep to be a man in a mask the stick to be a gun and the lettuce to be a woman"s purse. The latter of course being the actual account of what happened. All of this being said by definition we have to take every word literally. but I will give you some leeway since I'm sure you meant account as hyper metaphorical story. However I will not accept reasoning purely from metaphors it is not a sound way to reason. In fact if I reasoned like you I could say the word god was just a word for unknown force and the following was just an estimation of what happened.
 
 1) Now I will begin debating con. The word beginning irrefutably means the very moment something starts. and in the moment god is said to have created the earth and the heavens which I assume to mean space or perhaps heaven. Either way they were created instantaneously as the universe came into existence. It describes the earth as being still water and space as being lightless and dark. At the time of the big bang the whole universe would have been white hot and glowing with energy so there is no way that it was dark in the beginning. Then he created light from no source. as for the day thing i can see that being "light is the time that god is awake" type of thing so i will just go ahead and give it to you that it was not the same as our measurement
 
 1:6) "Let there be a dome in the midst of the waters, and let it separate the waters from the waters" this sentence has a couple of flaws and keep in mind that this is supposedly coming from the mouth of god himself. A dome is a half sphere. The earth is a full sphere but the people of the time did not know that so if one were sitting in a room making up stories that would be a likely product of those stories; dated information. It would be like someone in that age telling a story like "I flew up into the sky and observer the perfect cube that was the earth" the next thing was that he separated the waters from the waters I feel that is yet another portrayal of the (I mean this in the most literal way) ignorance of the time which if spoken by the mouth of god would not have been true.
 
 1:11) now we get to the real part. god says "Let the earth put forth vegetation: plants yielding seed, and fruit trees of every kind on earth that bear fruit with the seed in it." This part partially goes back to the sky being created in the last verse and i have three distinct points i want to bring up. 1) the very first plant was a type of algae that covered the earth in what was, to plants, a poison that substance was oxygen so even saying that the vegetation bearing seeds was this algae there is no way a tree of all things could have survived 2) ignoring fact one; trees evolved just like humans and it states quite clearly that he created ALL of the fruit bearing trees at this moment before animals existed. 3) fruits purpose is to lure animals in with its taste and sugar in order to spread the often inedible or indigestible seeds so if we are going with days were not really days then all of those trees would have had no way to reproduce in that time he was asleep.
 
 1:16)"God made the two great lights"the greater light to rule the day and the lesser light to rule the night"and the stars."
 This line suggests two things 1) the moon and the sun were just now created. and if he had created the moon just then all life on the planet would have been completely destroyed and I know you know why.2) the writer did not have a clear understanding that the light from the moon is the same light that comes from the sun. Another example of ignorance to science.
 
 1:16) I just don't know what to make of the in the dome of the sky. if the dome is what separates space from the earth than both the sun and the moon are way too close to us and if it is what separates the earth from space than it is WAY too close to us and finally if the dome is space than it separates water from water which is again another ignorance I would assume based on the fact that the sky is blue during the day. and in the next line he gives light a second time.
 
 1:20)"And God said, "Let the waters bring forth swarms of living creatures, and let birds fly above the earth across the dome of the sky."" If the dome represents the atmosphere than be go back to the fact that it is way too close if the dome represents space we must then assume birds can fly in space (a task that is altogether impossible).
 this line by itself does not imply that they were all made at this moment but in conjunction with the next line "So God created the great sea monsters and every living creature that moves, of every kind, with which the waters swarm, and every winged bird of every kind." following it by god saying it was good does imply that he created them all at the same time which directly contradicts the fossil record and the theory of evolution. As further proof there are a lot of signs that point to the idea that birds evolved from dinosaurs so if they were created before the dinosaurs that would not make much sense.
 1:24-25) all the land creatures are made and the words of every kind are repeated almost too much you cannot refute that this means every single kind of animal or else you are going against the word of god.
 
 1:27-2:0) god claims man is separate from beast and was created separately again contradiction evolution and fossil records.
 
 This ends my debate and please do not come back at me with any emotion or bias and please do not just repeat what you said in your first post. the second round is for rebuttals so i will go directly against your opening statement and you will go against mine. I just want to have a logical debate about this.