https://www.debate.org/debates/The-United-States-should-adopt-a-stricter-isolationist-stance/1/

TITLE: The United States should adopt a stricter isolationist stance

CATEGORY: Politics

I think that bringing back corporations is more of an economic issue than a forign policy one...they only reason they moved was because our govenment was putting to many restrictions on them (EOE, Minimum wage, unions) everything was regulated to the point of not being able to do anything....because of all this it drove prices up everywhere and therefore made it much more feasible to move to China.
 
 Free trade is EXTREMELY important within the USA, outside I would say put a tax on all goods being brought into the country from another.. I wouldn't tax US citizens if they were bringing in cheaper stuff, because they're Americans looking to make a deal. I would not tax exports, that way it gives forign countries no reason to put tarrifs on us. Of course subsidies should be abolished in order to make it work.
 
 Basically:
 
 1. No Subsidies
 
 2. Tax all imports the rate that the forign government is subsidizing that industry.
 
 3. Work on REAL free trade agreements, they should be almost one sentence....we won't tax you or subsidize us, if you don't tax us our subsidize yourselves.....pretty simple.
 
 It's a complicated problem, one which i might not be the best person to explain it to you, but trust me i've seen it proven that free trade can work....but on to the more important stuff:
 
 Isreal? Why keep it? The government is borderline terrorist, they invade countries randomly, they shouldn't technically own that land.....the british stole it from the arabs. And every day that we support them the arabs like us less, they're also perfectly capable of wiping out the whole mideast if they wanted to, and sometimes it looks like they're about to.. The arabs are very much our natural allies (they're very into limited government and free trade, see abu dahbai and the UAE) instead we tend to support the fasicst europeans who are leading us into their pit of slavery.
 
 As for the citizens thing, it's a very tricky issue.....the obvious side of course is the one you mentioned....save our citizens because we are Americans...It sounds good but you have to look at the other side as well:
 
 1. Those citizens left this country of their own free will, they knew the risks, it was their desicion
 
 2. Should we go after them, we are risking the lives of Brave American soldiers and taxpayers money, just because Billy Bob wanted to go to russia...
 
 3. We are also endangering our national security because everytime we send troops over there we run the risk of ticking someone off.
 
 4. our government has enough trouble as it is without having to send the cavalry to every corner of the globe looking out for idiots who were stupid enough to go there in the first place...we have no jurisdiction there and that's how wars start.
 
 Now pay very close attention to #1....because there ARE exceptions to this.... For instance if a US citizen was flying from New york to London, and the plane was hijacked to Iran...then maybe. If they were kidnapped on US soil....than definantly. If they were sent BY the government (ie soldiers, Agents, diplomats) then YES. But the ussual way should be for the US to make it as easy as posisble for the victims families or friends to arrange bail or ransom, without getting involved.....IE diplomacy, and of course don't forget all the embassy's that's their job.