https://www.debate.org/debates/This-House-Supports-the-Brexit/1/

TITLE: This House Supports the Brexit

CATEGORY: Politics

Thank you good proposition.
 
 The issue I will adress now is the fact that there is strength in number. Firstly, when we talk about trade, supposedly right, that there are 'too much' costs that are incurred when Britain remains in the EU. Also, when the proposition is trying to talk about the economic benefits or costs, he/she should have basic understanding of economics itself, in line with political situations. Suppose that Britain leaves the EU, the cost they will incur to facilitate trade with respective countries that they trade with will be far more than the alleged value thay Britain is paying for its 'membership'.
 
 Also, when we talk about secuirty, Britain is actually much safer when they remain in the EU. Yes, the proposition might argue that by being in the EU, with its Schengen area, Britain cannot control its borders from the the threat of 'terrorists', but studies have shown, that these terroriet attacks, such as the Paris bombing, is homegrown. Yes, these 'terrorists' might be foreign in descent, but we cannot blame the immigration system for this. It is the issue of the educational system. How is Britain more secure by being in the EU?
 
 In terms of immigration itself, be it refugees or economic migrants, member states can share information and costs, and through distribution of costs, respective countries can achieve economies of scale through agglomeration. But this still does not answer how secure Britain can be. The Office for Budget Responsibility reports that much of public services are financed by taxes by immigrant workers. Also there's a high correlation economic growth with the level of immigration. This provide a security net for Britain in terms of its financial security.
 
 Talking about finances, leads to my next point, on the issue of services provided by Britian for the rest of EU, especially when we consider the fact that Britian is a service-based economy. The financial services centre in Britain employ around 2.1 million people, and this bulwark of the industry is stable mainly because of the EU internal market legislation. Investors do not mind takin risks, but looking at political uncertainty, and especially one with huge implications to the financial sector, they will be scared off. There's been talk of HSBC relocating its HQ away from London, and this will be made true, especially if Britain is to leave the EU, for gigantic multinational companies such as HSBC, prefers freer access to the market. This will greatly affect Britain's economy.
 
 That is all. Thank you