https://www.debate.org/debates/Space-exploration-from-mars-to-pluto-is-a-waste-of-money/1/

TITLE: Space exploration from mars to pluto is a waste of money

CATEGORY: Politics

"Our probes and shuttles haven't discovered anything useful from Mars to Pluto."
 Firstly, our technology is insufficiently advanced to fully explore many of the planets farther away from us than Mars. Despite this, we've even found life-hospitable environments near us- For instance, the oceans on Saturn's moon Enceladus. In addition, many habitable exoplanets have been discovered (in part, by the Voyager) and could contain life.
 "How about limiting it to nearby galaxies? to our own galaxy?"
 I don't appreciate you changing the parameters of the debate here, but that's not the real issue. Even if we only look for planets to profit from in our own galaxy (which we have by no means indexed fully, by the way) that is still space travel. Halting all space-based space research right now and letting our shuttles rust in their hangars will bring no profit at all, and certainly no new discoveries.
 "..with our great Hubble telescope and other observatories"
 Our observatories on Earth are remarkably clouded by the atmosphere and ozone layer. The only way to get clear, unadulterated picture of the rest of our galaxy is to send out more probes and telescopes. Although Hubble is a valuable tool, it can by no means capture a complete picture of our galaxy.
 "I doubt there is a resource from mars to Pluto"
 Perhaps there may not be a perfect deposit of a needed resource from Mars to Pluto, however, many extrasolar planets have useful resources. What about 55 Cancri e (discovered in 2004), a planet made mostly of pure diamond? Many planets have valuable minerals that are extremely rare on Earth, thus allowing humans to discover new applications for them.
 
 Because humans are despoiling the Earth at such a prodigious rate, we must seek habitation elsewhere in order to continue our species. Therefore, extrasolar planet exploration is absolutely necessary, and the first step to that is intrasolar planet exploration.