https://www.debate.org/debates/A-higher-minimum-wage-is-the-answer-to-poverty/1/

TITLE: A higher minimum wage is the answer to poverty

CATEGORY: Politics

This is an argument about whether higher minimum wage would be the answer to poverty.
 I will be pro minimum wage, and my opponent would be con/against.
 Here are some ground rules:
 The first round will be acceptance, followed by a starting argument.
 Grammar is not a valid argument.
 Keep a nice and calm tone.
 Do not go personal.
 Answer as quickly as possible - preferably within a day of the last one.
 Enjoy.
 
 Higher minimum wages would be the answer to poverty. There are a lot of people in America living in poverty, and it is rare that those people ever get out of it again. One of the main reason for that, is that there are simply not enough money circulating in the system. If the economic circle should be able to function, almost every household need enough money they then can spend on products from big firms, who are then capable of hiring more people, so that more people can get money, and put it into the system. That is how the American economic system is supposed to work. Sadly there is too much poverty in the country, to make it function properly. The people working in minimum wage does not have enough money to put into system, and therefore there are not being created new jobs for other people. That is why, not enough people have enough money to boost each other, and help each other get wealthier.
 One of the biggest issues today, is the rate of unemployment in the country. There are a lot of reasons why some people are unemployed, because of illness, injury or simply just lack of jobs, and those people do we of course need to respect and help as well as possible. Then there is the last category, the people who choose not to get a job, since it would simply be too much draining work for a too small pay. Those people are mainly the younger generation, who then just live with their parents or other guardians, so that they not only are a bother for the elderly generation, who may get a mental illness (stress etc.) and therefore themselves getting out of work, but also they are not contributing to the economy, by having a job themselves. To get those people into work, it is important to make sure that being employed is more appealing than being unemployed. That the pay is actually worth the work.
 Some people believe that higher taxes would be the answer to the problem of poverty, since it would make sure that the government is able to provide better for the less fortune. That is however a complete misunderstanding, and those people need to remember that we are not, and never will be, a socialistic country. By increasing the taxes, all the responsibility will be put on our government, who will then have too much control over the people living in poverty. Not only will they get less of their already small salary, they will also lose a big part of their freedom to the government, and everyone should have equal freedom. They will not be able to control their own lives, the government will decide what they need for them. As long as they are getting funded by the government, they will never be able to get out of poverty.