https://www.debate.org/debates/Would-the-USA-beat-Russia-in-a-war/1/

TITLE: Would the USA beat Russia in a war

CATEGORY: Politics

Sadly, the military is not the only factor in a war. A few examples of this would be the current war against terrorism waged by the U.S and their allies, Vietnam or Afghanistan. If we take a look at the recent  big  wars the United States took a part in, we can clearly see that their supremacy is starting to shatter. Let's take a closer look at the Afghanistan war; the U.S stayed there for thirteen years, yet nothing really came out of it, apart from death. Now, we can think of the Soviet-Afghan war, which lasted 10 years. During those ten years, and unlike the United States, the USSR was fighting multiple foes at once. First off, Cold War going on. Secondly, the allies of the U.S helped the Mujahideen (what a brilliant idea seeing where it lead to). They still managed to devastate the entire country, and if it wasn't for the economical exhaustion of communism and the country as a whole, the USSR could have stayed there much longer. 
 
 Something else to take some notes on is the demography of Russia. Just like Afghanistan, the U.S forces would have to go through insanely harsh fighting conditions, mountains and winters. Apart from the European Russia, the United States' European allies would have to go through the Ural, which is basically a death wish (you can ask my dear ancestor Napoleon). It also takes eight hours to go from the Western part of Russia to the Eastern in an airplane, which is plenty of time to get your jets shot at. It is not even counting Siberia, probably the hardest terrain to fight in. 
 
 Now, let's talk about the alliances, as you so dearly mentioned them. France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Japan, South Korea, Mexico and even the US themselves import a lot of oil from Russia. In fact, Russia is one of the main oil providers in Europe, which is why the Ukraine crisis is so hard to put an end to. Notice how three of those countries are in Europe. The European Union being the political disaster that it has proven to be many times, I do not see how they would possibly even try to declare war to Russia; Mother Russia only has to cut down the pipes and let Europe in its mess. They need that oil, and the United States would not be able to sustain the oil expenses of seven countries. Same goes with the United Nations, it is impossible for them to take action, as Russia and China both have a veto vote. Now, let's take a look at Japan and South Korea that are  really  isolated. They are in range for both Russian and Chinese missiles, and so would be an eventual help from the US. There is no way they could even try to attack Russia, because it would mean the death of possibly millions of civilians. Even if the United States' allies attempted to do something, Japan and South Korea would be destroyed within a month or so from the bombings, Europe would quickly exhaust their resources whilst fighting and suffer strong retaliations, and Israel would have to go through Syria in order to reach the border. Iran and Syria being Russia's allies, it is highly possible that terrorism would rise in the Western world as a retaliation from the war (I am in no means saying that Syria and Iran are terrorists, simply that the conflict would be a perfect occasion for DAESH to throw another blow at the Western World). Now, let's talk about China. This country currently holds around  $3.28 trillion  in foreign-currency exchange and they are the first foreign owner of American dollars. Imagine the diplomatic power that is granted by this amount of money. Now, Shanghai, currently protected by the U.S would get annihilated between the Chinese and Russian bombings and repeated strikes.
 
 It is in fact clear that the U.S could not count on their allies to fight the Russian alliance this time around, as the world became way more complex and dependent on those countries. Also, upfront attacks would be made difficult by China being able to strike Japan, South Korea and Shanghai (U.S dear bases). In fact, Russia would not have to do much fighting to put the United States in trouble; which could either lead to a second Cold War, WW3 or simply the U.S giving up. 
 
  “The supreme art of war is to subdue the enemy without fighting.” -  Sun Tzu,  The Art Of War