https://www.debate.org/debates/Abortion-should-be-legal/41/

TITLE: Abortion should be legal

CATEGORY: Politics

In this debate on abortion I would like to honor Candace Pickens who died, because she would not get an abortion. Her and her one year old baby Zachaeus were shot, relatives believe it is because she insisted on keeping her second child. Read more at
  http://www.christiandaily.com... 
 
 In this last session of the debate I only want to invite readers to keep questioning what they hear. We never want to come to conclusions based on inaccurate, irrelevant, or ignored information.
 
 Many people are misled by questions regarding the safety of the mother. Ectopic pregnancy is one such example. Anyone can challenge this point of view and find out about real survival rates, misdiagnosis', and new medical procedures available from the group of prolife supporters "Personhood". Here at  http://www.personhoodinitiative.com... 
 
 Another argument may be that abortion is okay in the instance of rape.
 Members of personhood make this statement:
 "As someone who really cares about rape victims, I want to protect them from the rapist, and from the abortion, but not the baby. A baby is not the worst thing that could ever happen to a rape victim " an abortion is," said Personhood USA spokesperson Rebecca Kiessling.
 
 "We need to educate the American public on the truth in this matter and not make public policy based on myth and misinformation," Kiessling, who was conceived in rape, added.
 Read more at  http://www.christianpost.com... 
 
 All of us have to give our due diligence not to distort data and state it inaccurately. If we do then we fail to think through the implications that we are ending a human life. In today's society it is difficult to challenge what is commonly accepted as the saying goes:
 "The fish is always the last to see the water" because our habitation allows our minds to cancel out constancies.
 Many of us have become desensitized to abortion. Now that we have learned the truth we have to take action to alert others, it is never too late. Now is the time to do the right thing, we can stop abortion!