https://www.debate.org/debates/We-should-not-attack-Iran/1/

TITLE: We should not attack Iran

CATEGORY: Politics

Here are the main points of my argument.
 1. Our own officials say Iran is not building a Nuclear bomb.
 2. Nuclear war is not reasonable.
 3. Nuclear weapons are used to prevent war.
 4. We should try to avoid a war.
 5. An attack would show Iran it needs a bomb.
 Argument 1: Our own defense officials are saying that there is no major evidence of Iran building a nuclear bomb. Here are some examples.
 Our 16 intelligence agencies are saying that Iran abandoned plans for a nuclear bombs years ago.
 James R. Clapper, the national director of intelligence says that Iran has the option but hasn't decided.
 Leon Panetta, our defense sectary, says Iran is not decided to build a bomb
 Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who is Israel's former head of intelligence, says that Iran is acting rationally.
 Argument 2: There is a reason that the Cold War didn't end with nuclear war. That is because it is not reasonable to use a nuclear bomb if your opponent can strike back. Nuclear weapons our the symbol of mass destruction, and will be seen as a cause for full blown war. This will result in millions of deaths (which very few leaders would want). If Iran were to use a bomb, it would be bombed, invaded, and probably have soldiers in it for years. This is not something Iranian leaders would want to see.
 Argument 3: There is another reason their hasn't been nuclear war yet. If both sides have nuclear weapons, then they prevent war. If one side attacks, the other side will retaliate. No matter what the situation is, no country wants to get blown off the map.
 Argument 4: War is horrible. We have spent the last 10 years in Afghanistan andIraq. War should be only a last resort.
 Argument 5: Now lets say the U.S. Attacks Iran and delays their nuclear program. This would show Iran that we want to stop it from protecting itself. This would prove to it that it needs a nuclear bomb. They would begin building it. This would happen without really knowing that they made a bomb.
 Conclusion: In the end, nuclear weapons are rational because they prevent war. This would allow Iran to make sure it will not be attacked. Also, their has been no major evidence that Iran is building a nuclear bomb. This is an important issue, but war is not the answer.
 
 References
  http://www.nytimes.com... 
  http://www.foxnews.com... 
  http://www.cbsnews.com...