https://www.debate.org/debates/Do-you-think-it-is-right-to-smack-your-child-as-a-discipline/1/

TITLE: Do you think it is right to smack your child as a discipline

CATEGORY: Politics

I thank my opponent for the debate.
 
 I do believe it is right to smack a child as a form of discipline. Resolution affirmed ;)
 
 I'm just teasing. I shall refute my opponent's arguments.
 
 "this smacking may be taken too far by either parents of the child, and therefore none of them will stand against the child's rights upon not being smacked or harmed when needn't to be disciplined."
 
 MAY is the key word. You can't prove that it will be taken too far. It depends on the behavior and parental authority to determine when one has gone "too far." A child has a right not to be smacked or harmed when he doesn't need discipline? Who is to determine when the discipline takes place? You? You are not clear.
 
 "If we think back to the Baby. P. incident then we are able to reflect on how much this smacking can do and whats happens if this is taken too far. "
 
 One incident. One type of smacking that was taken too far. Can't negate the general resolution with one specific case.
 
 "I think the idea of introducing a plan to ban smacking children as a form of discipline clearly sicks to the children's rights and it also will prevent children from getting hurt, and repeating the baby P. incident."
 
 A child's rights? Clarify. You have not done so. I would like to see some more evidence of children being injured by "smacking." There is a difference between hitting and smacking: hitting is a form of discipline that involves multiple beatings/hits delivered by the parent to the child while smacking is a form of discipline that involves a single hit delivered by the parent in order to teach the child the difference between right and wrong behavior. You are probably referring to hitting in this case, and hitting is not part of the resolution.
 
 "May I also add that we have now made ways around this how you can put your child into time out, which consists of time out for a child when misbehaving. So, why go back to the old way of smacking when we can clearliy deal without it."
 
 Time out? Do you have kids? Kids constantly run from the area where they have to serve the time out and exhibit even more bad behavior in the parental process of trying to teach the child to behave well. Smacking is much more direct, relatively quicker than time outs, more effective, and is more beneficial for enforcing good behavior.
 
 I have refuted my opponent's arguments and intertwined some of my own. Thank you.