https://www.debate.org/debates/whats-next-for-furguson/1/

TITLE: whats next for furguson

CATEGORY: Society

In light of the fact that "whats next for furguson" (sic) is not an assertion for which one can be either for or against, I will take a stance against the assertion stated in the first "argument", namely that President Obama desires to declare Marshall law after a riot occurs in Ferguson, Missouri following the refusal to indict officer Darren Wilson.
 
 President Obama has demonstrated quite clearly that the very last thing he would ever desire is to have Marshall law in America. His utter cowardice in making decisions, his constant waffling and political deviousness, his blatant lies covered up by more lies, all go to demonstrate the fact that urine would run down his pants leg if he were told that he was directly responsible for the fate of this country. He is a speech-maker. He is a politician. He has never been, and will never be, a leader. He is only comfortable being able to speak without interruption or questions from the "free" press or anyone else. If Marshall law became necessary, he would run and hide behind Michelle like the craven little feckless spoiled child that he has always been.
 
 The truth is, America is bigger, stronger and wiser than Obama and his racist bootlicker buddy Eric Holder can ever imagine. After a brief and violent riot in Ferguson, most Americans will realize that Officer Wilson did what he had to do. Most Americans will understand that the problem was that a teenager was using drugs and had been fooled into stupid actions by a violent and immoral culture. We know that this outcome was avoidable. We know that we should ALL do a better job of instilling a respect for each other and for authority in our children. We know that broken homes lead to troubled children. We can do better. We know that poverty leads to drug abuse. We can do better. We know that teaching children to embrace and accept our differences leads to better relationships within our communities.
 
 America will heal from this DESPITE the Obamas, the Holders and the Sharptons in our midst. We have built a nation on equality. We have overcome all the obstacles that would have crushed a lesser people. We are America. We will not let a coward and a fool claim power over us. That right belongs to the people of America. ALL OF US.