https://www.debate.org/debates/Hillary-Clinton-would-get-more-support-if-she-wore-skirts-more-often./1/

TITLE: Hillary Clinton would get more support if she wore skirts more often.

CATEGORY: Politics

"Like many rich people, Hillary Clinton and John Edwards get expensive haircuts because they personally want to look good. Not for because of how voters view them, but because of how they view themselves. These expensive haircuts make them feel confident. Also, they probably got 500+ haircuts even before they were running."
 
 - This is a moronic argument, the people of the U.S.A want a president who is wise,knowledgeable,intelligent,experienced, and looks presentable. Neither of these two candidates went out and got 500+ haircuts because they "personally" want to look sharp. It's because the people expect their leader to be a presentable being. (side note, both candidates had their haircut on a plane in flight to Texas)
 
 "Although not all of Hillary's supporters are women, I agree that a vital potion are. However, again I would like to point out that the VERY few women in this nation who vote honestly are smart enough not to confuse how someone dresses with good leadership. The type of woman in America who would vote doesn't care about whether Hillary Clinton wears a skirt or pants. This type of woman won't think that a person is better equiped to be President because she wears stylish skirts. However, they probably would rather not have to stare at Hillary's flabby legs for the next 4 years."
 
 - (First of all "equiped" = equipped) Ok, it is known that in this campaign Hillary Clinton miraculously pulls out a win when she acts feminine.
 
  http://www.huffingtonpost.com... 
 
  http://www.brightcove.tv... 
 
  http://topics.edition.cnn.com... 
 
 You still have not shown me any facts only opinions statistically people would like to see Hillary Clinton look more feminine and courteous.
 
  http://pressreleases.kcstar.com... 
 
 "What I meant was that, the INCREDIBLY SMALL portion of voters who might care about looks would hate to see Hillary's legs for the next 4 years. They would much rather her wear pants to cover them up."
 
 - Again you do not show me anything, no polls, no articles, nothing just your opinion. During this debate I have so far presented many polls and articles stating facts and statistics against your claim. So far you have given me nothing to change my mind.
 
 "P.S. You failed to address the picture of the last time Hillary wore a skirt in your last argument, so I take it that you agree that they are unattractive. They why would "flaunting" them help her."
 
 - First of all I want to address that I cannot stand Hillary Clinton. I think her ideology belongs in China or Russia. However I have enough respect to not degrade a women who has accomplished more than me or you ever will. I am 23 years old and I will not degrade myself or Hillary Clinton by stating weather I find a 51 year old woman attractive or not apparently you however have no issue with that.
 
 - The democratic party is going to make history this election regardless of if you or I disagree with that history it will be done. Hillary Clinton will be the first women nominee or O'bama will be the first black nominee. Seeing how this is the case I think that if Hillary would stick to her guns but show a little feminine side it would help her.
 
 My opponent has shown only opinions no facts. Also he has contradicted him self this entire debate. On one hand he says that a hair cut does not matter because women are voting for her regardless of how she looks, and then on the other hand he is saying she should wear pants because a skirt looks bad. Am I the only one confused?