https://www.debate.org/debates/Should-South-Korea-develop-a-nuclear-weapon-against-the-North/1/

TITLE: Should South Korea develop a nuclear weapon against the North?

CATEGORY: Politics

Thanks for replying back because most people don't follow through on these debates.
 
 Okay let's get started, shall we...
 
 So you really think South Korea, wouldn't get the full protections of the US, or the US would not have the technology to do anything against the North Korea missiles. Where that is in fact wrong. Let me tell you why the US could defend South Korea from the North Korea most powerful weapons. It's called a missiles system. More preferably called Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system. "which was bolstered with an additional four missile launchers in September in reponse to North Korea"s fast-developing nuclear technology". (1.)  http://www.newsweek.com... 
 I wonder where you get this 5 minutes from, saying a nuke can reach Seoul South Korea within 5 minutes or so. Without sharing where you got that piece of information. Plus that's a big IF North Korea lunch. And even if they did lunch the US system would be able to shoot it down.
 Plus the fact is NK would not have any resource to actually last long in arm conflict against the US. So South Korea would not need a nuclear weapon to deter the North.
 
 Now to the Second part. Glad you know China would not be Okay with South Korea having nuclear weapons. China would have options for the South if they did opt in with (WMD). Yes, a war would be unlikely because China would be able to choke out the life out of South Korea with economic pressure like sanctions, and trade. So China, have options way before threating to go to war. SO again this would not be wise for South Korea to go nuclear. It would create more tension than needed. As for your question do i think the South would start an arms race, the answer would be yes. North Korea has been building their nuclear program since the 1990's. So really the race hasn't really started. But if the South decide to go on this path it would upset China, and it would encourage Japan and other in this region to go this path too. So, again it would offset the balance in Asia.
 
 The third part. You might be right the North might not lunch even if South Korea decides to go nuclear. But you don't actually know, do you? The North would be scary and might do anything in this case. And the reason why the North is where there is today, wasn't an overnight success it takes them well over 20 years to get where they are right now. And both the US and China let this happen. You can bet China would not allow the South to do the same. Plus North Korea would have a say in this too. Like i said before this will not end well if South Korea do this. It will create a whole new set of problmes, and problems South does not need.
 
 Looking forward to your responds....