https://www.debate.org/debates/Death-penalty/193/

TITLE: Death penalty

CATEGORY: Politics

Concerning Pro's recommendation regarding paedophiles (I'll switch to his definition for simplicity), he holds that the best course is simply to kill them. Consider for a moment that paedophiles, like others, are capable of contributing and willing to do so, and assume that wherever a person can and is willing to contribute positively to society it is beneficial for them to remain alive. Now consider that blanket execution of paedophiles may end up depriving society of willing workers. All that is actually necessary here is to remove those with paedophilic tendencies from environments where children are present. They can still serve society, and the streets are safer, but nobody has died.
 
 Why do I care for these criminals? Because they are the most unlucky people in the world, to inhabit bodies that demand they perform acts that they themselves likely condemn. I have argued in support of this theory (hard determinism) before, and I find it objectionable that we consider terminating someone's existence for an action that they had no say in whatsoever. Scientific studies show that our brains decide what we are going to do three hundred milliseconds before our conscious selves do. Intent is ascribed afterwards. I cannot imagine the horror of not only being witness to your body sexually abusing a child, but also being convinced by your brain that it was your idea. And you want to kill them for it.
 
 Regarding murders, once again I argue that the accused had no control over their actions. Their brain decided to kill, and they were forced to go along with it, and then were tricked into thinking they intended it. Once again, I advocate segregation rather than death, because they can still contribute to society. All we must do is put them in a position where it will be physically impossible for them to kill others.
 
 Regarding Pro's last point, the judiciary (at least in England) is dominated by white, middle-aged, middle-to-upper class men, which prejudices the justice system from the start, even ignoring each judges' individual biases, which they likely form before even hearing the evidence. This is because in a society where there is a minority, the majority inevitably end up repressing or discriminating against them in one form or another. Hence, if you are working class and black you will be sentenced to death more easily than a white middle class person, because the judge identifies with the latter. For evidence, look to America's racial profiling statistics for death row inmates. The white and black populations on death row are roughly equal, but in the wider population, whites outnumber blacks by more than five times (see  http://quickfacts.census.gov... ). And some still say that racism is dead.
 
 I look forward to Pro's final arguments in the next round, and hand the debate over to him.