https://www.debate.org/debates/Republicans-better-handle-the-economy-than-Democrats/1/

TITLE: Republicans better handle the economy than Democrats

CATEGORY: Politics

I would like to thank my opponent for accepting my challenge to my debate. I believe it is a sign that our democratic system of government is healthy when two citizens can freely and openly debate political issue and opinions without the interference of the state.
 
 First off, let me begin by stating that the Republican economic plan has the goal of reducing un essay government regulations, getting rid of government programs which aren't working but draining the countries finances, and helping all families achieve a state of self-sustaining economic prosperity.
 
 To begin my main argument, I would like to discuss challenges and economic issues that are of great concern today. One of the largest economic endeavors democrats have perished recently is the Affordable Care Act, dubbed Obamacare by most. Despite reaching the 8,000,000 people sign up mark it is still experiencing many problems and setbacks. It has caused premiums in nearly all states to go up and is actually causing many people to loose their health insurance or chane their plans. This is one of countless examples that show that show that the Democratic Party wins elections and runs the country on false promises and weak leadership as President Barrack Obama insisted that "if you like your plan you can keep it". When the program was first launched it was completley disastrous. They had nearly 3 years to fix and test the program as it was passed into law in 2010 but did not take effect until October 2013. In addition, it cost the American public nearly $300 million dollars just to fix the technical problems with the website. The Republican plan is to create a whole new program which will work after the current one is repealed. Mitt Romney created a health plan for the people of Massachusetts which worked very well. In fact many suspect that the Democrats got the idea of Obamacare from Romney's program. However, the difference is that Obamacare is currently failing in Massachusetts and can not get off it's feet.
 
 In order to get out of this economic struggle that has been plaguing our country since the year 2008 is to get the unemployment levels down by creating more jobs. If families have a source of income then they will have more money to spend which will help the economy grow. In order to do that we must focus on the backbone and base of the American economy and that is the small business. Small businesses can grow and help create new jobs which is why the government must allow them to expand and grow. Democratic policies, however, have so many regulations and restrictions that a major strain is placed upon small businesses. Obamacare, for example, has a mandate which states that businesses who have 30 employees or more must provide their employees with health insurance. On paper that sounds wonderful but it is not. In fact this policy may cause many jobs to be lost. What if, for example, a small business with 33 employees can just barely scrape up enough revenue to survive. It can't afford to provide 33 people with health insurance making it have to lay off a few workers to get below the 30 cut off line. Minimum wage for example as well. Many democrats wish to raise the minimum wage to 15 dollars nearly doubling it. Now I agree it should be raised gradually and comfortably once things improve, but if you take such a huge jump and nearly double it then the business I mentioned earlier with 33 employees will now basically have to pay for 40 or more workers technically when those that are being payed minimum wage are taken into account. Once again that is unstable.
 
 Democrats in government also love to spend money. But how can they let the government spend more than it is taking in? That's disgraceful we are supposed to be a role model and the strongest country on Earth we can't let that happen. Under the Obama administration the 5 deficits so far under it have been the largest ever in US history. This president is spending more money than all 43 previous presidents combined. And when they reform the budget they would rather cut back on the military and education and raise taxes rather than cutting off funding to programs that aren't working efficiently which is what Republicans want to do. Democrats are quick to say that Republicans just want to cut back the wealthy's taxes by billions of dollars but that simply is just not true. Republicans want lower taxes and a better government budget that doesn't hurt the economy.