https://www.debate.org/debates/Extreme-Religious-Fundamentalists-Are-The-Least-Intelligent-Humans/1/

TITLE: Extreme Religious Fundamentalists Are The Least Intelligent Humans

CATEGORY: Science

Once upon a time: We had these marvelous tests that for some confirmed that they were indeed above everybody else and were exalted as the elite, they even created clubs for these elite so they could gather and snub their noses at all the lowly common people.
 These were the IQ tests. Remember them, I bet you all do?!?!
 
 Their entire basis and conceptualization was entirely wrong and fictitious.
 Psychology and normal everyday Sociology studies has revealed that IQ testing is not really the measure of Intelligence that they conceived it to be.
 Such clubs as: High IQ Society, Mensa International, Prometheus Society and the Triple Nine Society, indeed have it all Wrong.
 
 IQ may assist in Intelligence or cleverness, but it is not really a good measure of Intelligence. Because high IQ people can still believe in stupid concepts and do extremely stupid acts.
 
 It has indeed been found that a better measure of a person's Intelligence is their Rationality, or ability to consider a set of circumstances rationally and devise a rational outcome.
 A rational outcome should be: The best possible outcome when considering all the aspects of the case, concerning, safety, consideration of those involved, primary goals and future ramifications.
 
 A person who can produce such an outcome, needs to have completely rational judgement, without corrupting influences from cognitive factors that may reduce the effectiveness of their thinking in any of those aspects, or as is now being called sources of dysrationalia.
 
 There are many sources of dysrationalia, that cloud rational judgements, from drugs, home and urban myths, superstition/religion, phobias, poor concentration or lack of commitment, etc...
 Though one of the biggest dysrationalia influences in society to date has been Religion, which is the most prominent Superstition in our society.
 Some studies show that children in religious schools gain high passes on final tests. This is often pointed at by them as proof that they are not affecting the Intelligence of a student by subjecting them to Theology.
 
 Yet, they are not really measuring Intelligence there, they are mostly measuring the ability of a student to pass exams, mostly parrot fashion.
 It doesn't mean that the student once in the outside world will be making Rational decisions.
 Industries in many cases have realized this and some are now introducing Rationality testing to filter their selection recruits and new employees.
  http://io9.com... 
  http://bigthink.com... 
 
 Japan, in particular has embraced Rationality Testing as a means of testing the Intelligence.
  http://educationinjapan.wordpress.com... 
 
 From the outset, it does appear that the deeper a person is entrenched in dysrationalia, the less Rational, and thus less Intelligent that person will become.
 From examining those public figures who expose themselves regularly on the media and measuring the Rationality of their messages and speeches.
 The most Irrational messages and public statements all appear to originate from the same sources, again and again.
 These are the Extreme Religious Fundamentalists, such as those on religious Television, Radio and public soapboxes, rallies.
 
 Their continual and blatantly Irrational messages and statements confirm my hypothesis that Extreme Religious Fundamentalists are indeed the least intelligent humans on planet Earth.