https://www.debate.org/debates/People-planning-to-buy-a-new-car-who-belive-in-capitolism-should-buy-a-Ford-not-a-Chrysler-or-GM-car/1/

TITLE: People planning to buy a new car who belive in capitolism should buy a Ford not a Chrysler or GM car

CATEGORY: Society

As I watch our Govt nationalize and socialize and subsidize virtually every aspect of our lives, I have come to the conclusion that capitalism can not and will not survive much longer, but then again that is most likely the plan in the first place. I can not prove that capitalism is under attack but actions speak louder than words and I see nothing that the current administration is doing with regard to economics that even resembles capitalism.
 
 Ford has played by the rules. Ford has not accepted any kind of bail out. With GM and Chrysler about to receive a never ending bottomless pit of taxpayer money to prop them up indefinitely regardless of whether or not they make cars people want and buy puts Ford in an impossible position to compete. Ford has to make cars that people want and Ford has to make cars that people will buy or they will go bankrupt do to lack of profit. GM and Chrysler on the other hand don't have to worry at all. They will make what ever the Govt tells them to. If it is a complete failure so what, The govt isn't going to let them go under. But poor old Ford, they have to play by the rules or they are dead. There will be no bailout for Ford, they will just disappear and all that will be left is govt run GM and Chrysler. You will be forced to buy what ever they make regardless of whether you like it or not.
 
 Buying a Ford will keep freedom of choice alive in the auto industry. Buying a Ford will reward Ford for playing by the rules. Buying a GM or Chrysler is rewarding failure. Buying a Ford will send a message to govt that we don't want what some self serving self righteous pampas politician thinks we should drive car. Ford deserves to be rewarded for sticking it out and not taking the easy road like GM and Chrysler. If Americans who believe in freedom of choice and capitalism want the auto industry in America to make cars they want, buy a Ford. Buy a GM or Chrysler and promote socialism and the govt takeover of all auto industries. Ford can't compete against a govt owned business with a never ending bottomless pit of money. It is unfair, UN-American and anti capitalist to allow GM and Chrysler this disgusting and vile advantage over Ford.