https://www.debate.org/debates/Abortion-should-be-made-illegal/7/

TITLE: Abortion should be made illegal

CATEGORY: Society

Well, this debate is pretty much over, as Pro seems to have given up on rationally refuting my case...
 
 Re: "Brain activity is not the source of life."
 
 Pro's claim is utterly false. When a person undergoes cardiac arrest, he is not automatically declared dead; doctors wait until brain activity has died out before doing that. The brain can continue functioning for several minutes even after the heart has stopped beating; meanwhile, the heart, as well as the rest of the body, immediately shuts down the moment the brain stops functioning, because it is the governing organ of the body-- it is what grants us life. Thus, that which does not possess brain activity cannot really be considered alive from an ethical standpoint.
 
 Re: "Being alive, and being conscience are different things."
 
 I'm not saying that *either* of those things are valid criterion for moral significance. I'm arguing that the presence of brain activity is the best criterion for moral significance because the cessation of that activity is what marks the end of a being's moral significance (i.e. death). Pro seems to believe that simply being biologically alive grants ethical relevance, but like I stated last round, that would require us the recognize even bacteria, grass, and insects as being valuable moral agents, which is absurd.
 
 Re: "all fetuses brains starts developing early in the first trimester"
 
 That is just plain wrong. Scientists have shown that no notable brain activity develops until the 24th week, which is towards the end of the second trimester [1]. Also note that contrary to Pro's claims, I am not equating the level of brain development to the level of moral significance a being has; I am simply saying that the presence of brain activity is necessary for any sort of moral significance to be granted. Other factors come into play for determining the extent of that significance. Pro is straw-manning my argument.
 
 Re: "We don't kill our own because we are different."
 
 Pro isn't making any sense. Why does being biologically human grant moral significance? That sounds like a very baseless criterion. Furthermore, it excludes all other sentient species from being ethically relevant, including other advanced mammals and intelligent life on other planets. My criterion is clearly preferable because 1) I actually warranted it with the corollary to death, and 2) it encompasses all sentient beings, rather than just humans.
 
 .
 
 The resolution remains negated. There is no reason to believe that a fetus qualifies as a morally significant being; it does not have any real brain activity until after the first trimester, and I have shown that brain activity is absolutely essential for something to truly be considered ethically relevant.
 
 .
 
 [1]  http://www.newscientist.com...