https://www.debate.org/debates/Humans-are-both-physically-and-mentally-superior-to-most-animals./1/

TITLE: Humans are both physically and mentally superior to most animals.

CATEGORY: Science

Yes, I will give you the fact that some animals have superior brains, but is the size or function of your brain that really makes you intelligent? First, we need to understand what intelligence really means. Intelligence, from a survival standpoint, is the ability to comprehend, understand, and adapt to patterns. Using this as the definition for survival intelligence, I use the analogy of two students in the same grade trying to get into a school with a really low acceptance rate. Both students are placed up against a very long and very hard test, that involves needing a real understanding of the material. The first student, or another animal species, is naturally a little better at capturing certain types of patterns, and is able to understand how to do it better. They study a bit at home, until they understand how to do the material pretty well. They get a 95% on the test because some of the questions need a much more complex understanding of the material than the first student had. The second student, or the human race, is average, and has to take a long time to study. However, the second students gets curious. They search online to try and find out why something works, on top of their knowledge of how it works. They get an 100% because they are able to think a lot deeper than the first student, and can understand the more abstract and difficult questions on the test. The main reason that humans are so far ahead is because of our inherent curiosity. Koalas, domesticated pets, gibbons, they all have unique traits that are incredible, but they work only because they understand simple patterns. They are the first student, they understand how, but not why. In a way, it is kind of like watching a little brother grow up. We're an older sibling, we're ahead, but the other species' are getting there faster than we think. We're watching evolution similar to what happened to us, happen to them.It's incredible. However, just because they are growing and learning doesn't mean they will be at our level any time soon.