https://www.debate.org/debates/juveniles-charged-with-a-violent-felony-ought-to-be-treated-as-adults-in-the-USA/1/

TITLE: juveniles charged with a violent felony ought to be treated as adults in the USA

CATEGORY: Politics

Greetings to the contender,
 
 I apparently misread the premise of the debate and thought I would be con. Oh well, this shall be fun, in any case. 
 
 Due to the fact that my opponent has not offered any definitions, I will take the initiative. 
 
 Juvenile should mean, "A youthful male or female." (Definitions 4/5, Dictionary.com:  http://dictionary.reference.com... ) In a legal sense, any person, teenager or child within the "Age of Responsibility." Since the "Age of Responsibility" varies from State to State, we can utilize the age of twelve as an average (twelve is also the Age of Responsibility in Canada). 
 
 "Violent Felony" means: "A crime consisting of conduct that presents a serious risk of potential injury to another that is punishable by imprisonment for more than one year — used esp. in federal sentencing of career criminals guilty of crimes involving use of a weapon." Dictionary. com.  http://dictionary.reference.com... 
 
 I will therefore argue that a youth within the age of responsibility who has been charged of committing a violent felony should be tried by an 'adult' criminal court and sentenced as an adult would before the law - no commuted sentences or community service in lieu of an adult's sentence.
 
 This conviction should not be interpreted to mean that the child would be sent to an adult penitentiary, as that would be improper and incredibly hazardous to the child's well being (perhaps even inhumane).
 
 The core reason behind my position is that a responsible juvenile  is aware  of his/her actions.
 
 It is at this age that a young person begins to understand morality, consequentialism and crime. Therefore, a young person  realizes that there are consequences  for his/her actions, whether they be right or wrong. 
 
 Therefore, a teenager who is armed and assaults somebody with the weapon comprehends fully what will occur to the victim, and also what the consequences should be for that felony. 
 
 An armed young person should be punished fully in accordance to the law, and not merely be given, "A slap on the wrist," as the colloquialism states.
 
 Perhaps to further this, most teenagers realize that a sentence for them will be lighter, and indeed laugh at the pitiful attempts at punishment. 
 
  Secondly , I'm going to consider the method of how a child obtained his/her weapon. Legally, a person under the age of eighteen can not purchase a firearm, a sword, dagger or even a large knife without a guardian's consent. Carrying gravity knives, daggers and switchblades is an illegal act in Canada and most States (though possession is not necessarily illegal, and some States do permit unconcealed butterfly knives). 
 
 In similar manner, nunchukus, morning stars, shanks and other weapons are of dubious legality (most are considered prohibited weapons, though morning stars can be carried in some States). In fact, in many States, pepper spray can not be utilized by people under the age of eighteen (in most, it is strictly legislated). 
 
  Therefore, a person who has obtained any of these weapons must have criminal or dubious connections , making the (pre)/teen doubly responsible for his/her actions. If a person knowingly purchases one of these items and then intends to utilize it at some jecture, s/he is committing multiple crimes with both knowledge and even intent. 
 
 If a 180 pound teenager of about sixteen or seventeen were to flick a switchblade and assume an offensive combat stance with intent to maim you, would you appreciate that they be sent to juvenile court and sentenced lightly in proportion to the adult sentence? I think not!
 
 A child who maims, tortures, assaults with a weapon or kills should be prosecuted fully by the law.
 
 Adult sentencing in regards to a violent felony or a murder will also serve to prevent juvenile crime. 
 
 It would also serve to diminish the extent of gang crime. It is a fact that many teenagers and young adults join gangs (311 Boyz, for example) and are directly responsible for a plethora of violent felonies. Perhaps if the sentencing were to be harsher, the motivation would not be worth the consequences. 
 
 That is enough for now, I suppose. Thanks for the debate! It has been enjoyable.
 
 Cheers
 
 Evidence for the dilemma of teen gangs:   http://www.cyc-net.org... 
 
  http://www.youtube.com... 
 
  http://www.ehow.com... 
 
 
 
 