https://www.debate.org/debates/There-s-No-Such-Thing-as-a-Natural-Disaster/1/

TITLE: There's No Such Thing as a Natural Disaster

CATEGORY: Science

Hello, and thank you for accepting. I concede that I used the complete wrong quote to you, and that quote did not fit.
 
 Moving on in my argument, I would like to bring some information from a column by Neil Smith, a distinguished professor of Anthropology and Geography at the CUNY Graduate Center where he also directs the Center for Place, Culture and Politics.
 
 It is generally accepted among environmental geographers that there is no such thing as a natural disaster. In every phase and aspect of a disaster – causes, vulnerability, preparedness, results and response, and reconstruction – the contours of disaster and the difference between who lives and who dies is to a greater or lesser extent a social calculus. Hurricane Katrina provides the most startling confirmation of that axiom. This is not simply an academic point but a practical one, and it has everything to do with how societies prepare for and absorb natural events and how they can or should reconstruct afterward. It is difficult, so soon on the heels of such an unnecessarily deadly disaster, to be discompassionate, but it is important in the heat of the moment to put social science to work as a counterweight to official attempts to relegate Katrina to the historical dustbin of inevitable "natural" disasters.
 
 that is his first paragraph, stating the direct opinion in the science world. These disasters are not man made, at least not in that sense, but are caused by social and geographical changes.
 
 I want to clarify: I do not want to bring the meaning of these two words into this debate, because the name 'natural disaster' does not convey what I am trying to say. A misnomer, if you will.
 
 another small bit:
 
 First, causes. The denial of the naturalness of disasters is in no way a denial of natural process. Earthquakes, tsunamis, blizzards, droughts and hurricanes are certainly events of nature that require a knowledge of geophysics, physical geography or climatology to comprehend. Whether a natural event is a disaster or not depends ultimately, however, on its location.
 
 this is self-explanatory. He goes on to write a paragraph for each of thee categories: causes, vulnerability, preparedness, results and response, and reconstruction.
  http://understandingkatrina.ssrc.org... 
 
 Having brouhg tof rht this resource, I would like to leave you with a quote by Russ Carnahan, D from Missouri.
 
 "Americans rightly asked, if this is the way our government responds to a natural disaster it knew about days in advance, how would it respond to a surprise terrorist attack? How would it respond to an earthquake?" Once again the 'natural disaster' by the sense of the word is not applicable.
 
 Thank you.