https://www.debate.org/debates/The-cloning-of-human-beings-should-be-developed-and-practiced/1/

TITLE: The cloning of human beings should be developed and practiced

CATEGORY: Science

Abdab, thank you for accepting my debate. I will soon hope to show why cloning humans is a good idea both in theory and in practice.
 
 I believe that the cloning of humans would impact society in a good way because:
 
 1) Clones would be able to learn faster and store more information than humans. Since clones would be genetically designed scientists could change their interests and intelligence level, this would mean that they could focus more on learning about science and social problems an therefore they would find more creative ways to combat many problems that the world faces today.
 
 2) Clones could fight wars instead of humans. First, Let me say that I do support war of any kind as I believe it cause unnecessary deaths, but if clones were fighting wars instead of humans the clone would be more efficient and less susceptible to make a major mistake. The clones could be genetically programmed to have the ability to stay awake and alert for long periods of time.
 
 3) If clones worked in hospitals they could deal with patients that have transmittable diseases since their genetics would be programmed so their immune system could fight off any disease, this would also lead to the cure for diseases such as cancer and AIDS because scientist could see what the the clones bodies do to fight off these diseases.
 
 Also, in response to you concerns designer babies wouldn't be a problem as only governments and scientific institutions would be able to clone, not the general population. And as for your concern for religion, people have the freedom to choose their own beliefs, but just because their religion says something is wrong doesn't mean the rest of the world shouldn't be able to do it. For example Christianity, Judaism, and Islamic all believe in fasting, but that doesn't mean everybody in the world has to fast because it would be offensive to those 3 religions if they didn't.