https://www.debate.org/debates/Civil-unions-are-NOT-the-shizz/2/

TITLE: Civil unions are NOT the shizz!!!

CATEGORY: Politics

"not recognized by most states or nations so gays cannot travel or live elsewhere"
 
 Actually, they can live wherever they want to. They just cannot marry yet. This doesn't really prove that Civil Unions are not good.
 
 And actually, Washington, California, Connecticut, Vermont, Maine, and New Jersey recognize Civil Unions. And in Illinois, New York, Maryland, and Rhode Island, the topic of Civil Unions is sometimes allowed and sometimes not (it is being debated). Oregon and New York have a domestic partnership available, which is close to a Civil Union, that they are allowed to have. So +- 12 States can have Civil Unions. But in Massachusetts it is legal for same sex couples to marry.
 
 In Belgium, Canada, South Africa, the Netherlands, and Spain you can have same sex marriage. In Aruba and Israel, they recognize same sex marriages from other countries.
 
 In some regions of Mexico, Australia, Brazil, and Argentina they allow Civil Unions. They also allow Civil Unions in Andorra, Luxembourg, Czech Republic, Finland, France, Germany and many other nations in the world to have Civil Unions. So no, most states and nations do not not allow Civil Unions. A lot do, but not most.
 
 "Marriage is not a religious institution:
 Atheists and Satanists get married everyday"
 
 First of all define religion. Also, I do not think that they get married everyday, but a lot do get married. I also agree that marriage is not a religious institution.
 
 Honestly, I took this debate from this standpoint. You do not agree with Civil Unions. You don't think they should be there at all. You don't think marriage between same sex couples should happen either. Because since Civil Unions are not good, they should be abolished. And since there is no same sex marriage, they shouldn't be allowed to marry either.
 
 I honestly think you did not make your point clear enough in the debate.
 
 Carry on.