https://www.debate.org/debates/This-house-woud-ban-university-fees/1/

TITLE: This house woud ban university fees

CATEGORY: Society

Thank you even though you have written a good argument but you have only commented on mine, you prove nothing.
 I would like to raise that if universities are banned from charging people from their education the half of the best university will go bankrupt. Not only are you willing to ban university fee's but your willing to close down half of our top universities. My argument enables more investment in universities. It will also help attract and keep the best teachers and researchers. Banning the fees universities will have to raise revenue privately then will have to respond to market signals. e.g. Getting sponsorship from the corporate sector may encourage universities to supply course of relevance to the modern world.
 The fee's will exclude those who do not care about education, those who are eager and wanting to go to university and get their degree, the fee's will increase the income rate of jobs, those who pay will realise how important it is and will willingly learn hard enough to get a degree and be employed.
 Those who cannot pay will still have a chance, apprenticeships are also available.
 
 'Universities need money to operate' is your argument, how exactly are they meant get that type of money? Sponsorships will not give over a million pounds. They need a fee. 'Post secondary education in some countries does not receive money from the government', is your last argument but what does it prove, it helps my argument. It states that education higher than secondary school does not receive money from the government, then those schools such as college and university have fee's also. This is why we need fee's. The government cannot help our whole lives, then they will go bankrupt.
 This is why universities should not change and charge students.
 My point is proven.
 
 Grammar mistake: 'recieve' is spelt 'receive', 'stickto' is 'stick to'.