https://www.debate.org/debates/Donald-Trump-on-attacking-syria-for-gas-attacks/1/

TITLE: Donald Trump on attacking syria for gas attacks

CATEGORY: Politics

We can look at this war in lots of detail, Because it is very similar to the events of the Yugoslavian civil war back in the 1990s. The massacres of Kosovo in particular. Following the end, There were many investigations, But it is only recently that the last of them are being brought to justice ( you are probably aware of the fairly recent trial where the war criminal Slobodan Praljak committed suicide by poison). It takes time but justice does come. Bombings were also ordered by NATO here, Against the will of the UN (showing that while difficult it could be possible to act even if Russia blocks the decision). However the consequences including $30 billion in economic losses for Yugoslavia and up to 528 civilians dead; my point is that bombings alone don't change anything, And it can only throw the region further into turmoil and it will be everyday people who suffer.
 
 The war as I have previously stated is over, Assad has won. This also means that it is highly unlikely that the regime will use chemical weapons again regardless of any actions taken or not taken. However sustaining hostilities reduces the chance of achieving compromise or cooperation with the Syrians meaning that they will continue to oppress and subjugate their people, Knowing that we wouldn't cooperate with them regardless. The sad truth is that the regime has won and there is nothing we can do is meaningful. By continuing hostilities we simply remove our ability to negotiate on behalf of the democratic rebels or Kurdish fighters; at the moment as far as Assad is concerned we are no better than Iran, Supporting terrorism. By not knowing when to stop (as Trump has) we continue to split the world into camps and I am not exaggerating when I say that the decisions we make today could lead to a new cold war.
 
 It is also very important that we appear strong and united, Because if people see that we are strong then we can stop showing them, Governments should know that they can work with us but they should know that we are strong. Would North Korea for example be more or less likely to attack based on appearance? Would Iran? Nations which have placed themselves as our enemies by very little fault of our own will strike at any weakness they see. Strength and unity is more important know than ever esspesialy as Trump has sought to separate himself from his allies, His belligerence to China and his trade sanctions against allies in Europe and Canada has shown us to be weak and divided something which has already had consequences as the Russians have started to patrol the North sea and submarines have been caught loitering near the UK's north sea internet cables. We must never be afraid to negotiate, But we must negotiate from a position of strength. The unity of the strikes doesn't weaken relations, But when Donald trump blunders like when he literally warned Syria and Russia of retaliation. My main criticism has always been Trumps lack of a concise Syria plan. He has backtracked back and forth on his views over the years first saying we should pull out then saying we should take more action then saying we should pull out and then saying we should commit more resources. These are all from his own tweets collected into this article https://www. Nytimes. Com/2017/04/07/us/politics/donald-trump-syria-twitter. Html
 
 finally where does it escalate from here? You state that Donald Trump would retaliate with greater force still. I agree that he would, But this is not a good thing. Greater force would either further damage military installations, Only prolonging the war and killing civilians in the surrounding area, Or would begin to target or would have to target factories and centres of government killing more civilians and further destabilising the region.
 
 The war is over, All we can do should be directed towards finding a solution to end the conflict with as little loss of life as possible and this relies upon our relationship with the Syrian government. Treat Syria like North Korea, Offer incentives or reductions of sanctions to them as they disarm and agree to searches.
 
 I must also add that having seen your comment saying that you wish you had chosen a three round approach, So If you confirm at the end of your next round that its your last round and I will forfeit the last two rounds if you do the same so everyone wins and this doesn't drag on.