https://www.debate.org/debates/Will-tensions-in-North-Korea-lead-to-a-war-between-the-North-and-South/1/

TITLE: Will tensions in North Korea lead to a war between the North and South

CATEGORY: Politics

I do not think that in the highly unlikely event of war between the South and North nukes will be used. Any thought to use nukes on the US side of thinking requires the utmost consideration and and thorough thinking because though the events at Hiroshima and Nagasaki were regrettable they were made after it was determined that thousands more would die in the invasion of the Japanese homeland causing more deaths that the atomic bomb strikes. In the Pacific campaign there are records of mass suicides in occupied Japanese territory by the Japanese civilians. It would have been much worse in an attack on the Japanese homeland as a whole. We would also have no reason to nuke the Northerners because their are so many poor innocent civilians victimized by the communist government. The nuclear strike on North Korea would also put the US/UN relations in the negative side causing less support in the highly improbable event of war breaking out. I never said that the US would attack China but simply that the two superpowers depend on eachother for money and trade. China without the US is bad for both and vice versa. You are right that the US military is made to protect our citizens, but we are talking about the protection of South Korea's freedom in the highly impractical event of war. If you were in a position where your economy is just getting back on its feet with the help of another superpower why would you do anything to jeopardize that relationship. Especially when you are already fighting an expensive war in the Middle East. The same thing for China if you had a business partner that pays you millions of dollars every year for your products why would you jeopardize that relationship for anything. Including a war that is a waste of soldiers, money, and technology. That is right that America was founded on a revolution but I fail to see your point in the "all it takes is one shot" argument. These two nations have been firing shots at eachother for a while now but still have not escalated to a full scale war. They won't either because without the backing of their superpower friends they can't have much of a war. Right now the US nor China is in a position to fight a two front war.