https://www.debate.org/debates/Obamacare-should-be-repealed./1/

TITLE: Obamacare should be repealed.

CATEGORY: Politics

Thanks for your arguments.      
    -----Rebuttals-----  
  
    R1:  Passage     
  
   This bill is only 68 words longer than the Republican transportation bill in 2005  [1.    http://tinyurl.com...   ]  Then, you have to factor in that health care is the size of 1/6th of our total economy.  It is obvious why it is very long then — it is comprehensive health care reform.   
  
   Furthermore, the PPACA passed the Senate with 60 votes, more than the constitutionally needed 51.  The PPACA passed both branches of Congress with more than the majority.  [2  .    http://tinyurl.com...  ]  The compromise bill that was ultimately signed by President Obama (PPACA) was created by Democrats, so that they could avoid any more filibusters or delays that the GOP were setting up repeatedly, and since the Democrats did not have 60 votes by this time, as Sen. Brown of Massachusetts recently came, without an alternate compromise bill, the legislation would have trouble passing with the Republican roadblocks being set up  [3.    http://tinyurl.com...  ] 
  
   Also, Pelosi actually said, "  we have to pass the bill so that you can find out what is in it, away from the fog of controversy.  "  She said this, because at this time, numerous rumors were being spread about it.  Pelosi simply said that once the bill is passed, everyone can see what is in it and not (like some proposed amendment you heard on the radio or the news).
  
  Obamacare has components from both sides of the debate.  For progressives, it does include a Medicaid expansion, as well as other patient protections.  For conservatives, it has the individual mandate to end the problem of free riders, ensure more coverage, and make consumers more accountable.  Also, the state insurance exchanges, as well as the tax credits for businesses are all conservative supported ideas.  So you arrive at a more bipartisan piece of legislation.
  
  In conclusion, this bill was passed, even through the roadblocks the GOP set up to destroy it, as they wanted to deny Obama and political accomplishments (Senator McConnel made this clear) and it passed with majorities in both the Senate and the House, and the length itself is extensive but reasonable for dealing with such a large reform proposal. 
  
    R2:  Affordable Health Care  
  
   First, the $1.7 trillion are initial costs to get the whole iniative moving into action.  After this, however, it has a negative impact on the deficit.  See the attached picture that describes this point.
 
 
   
  
   Those who cannot afford insurance are given federal subsidies and/or tax credits to purchase health insurance, with the subsidies provided on a sliding scale.   
  
   This act is funded by a broad tax base, for example, the surcharge on high income peoples is a hike of less than 1%.  Furthermore, this bill strengthens Medicare by making it more efficient, reducing future outlays.  So, by strenghtening Medicare, as well as the health care system, it is a good act. 
  
   Empirical evidence from the Dep. of Health and Human Services has found that Obamacare cuts the costs of health care insurance by $2,300 for a middle class family.  And for a low-income family of 4, they could save $14,900 a year by using tax credits and federal subsidies.  These benefits arise from market forces in state insurance exchanges.  [4.     http://www.healthcare.gov...   ]  By 2019, the average family would have an additional $2,000 in savings exclusively due to Obamacare.  So, families will save about 14-20% in health care costs. 
  
   Also, you mentioned that many businesses would rather pay a $2000 fine per employee instead of providing health insurance.  Your point itself is however absurd.  In the past, an employer could provide insurance at high prices.  Now, if they do, they get tax credits as well as the exchanges available to lower their total costs.  So, employers benefit.  Or, if they never provided insurance, they face a fine.  So, there was even more an incentive in the past to drop insurance.  So this argument is refuted. 
  
   Furthermore, through the usage of preventive care as well as added efficiency, Medicare is strenghtened and future costs are reduced.  Your point is thus refuted.  [5.     http://www.thanksobamacare.org...   ]  This law also ends the "donut hole" and provides rebates to Medicare recepients. 
  
   This act reduces total deficits, and reduces the number of uninsured Americans.  It takes bipartisan ideas such as Medicaid expansion, a sliding scale of federal subsidies and tax credits, insurance exchanges, and the individual mandate to reform health care.   
  
      R3:  Obamacare:  Insurance Access    
  
   The individual mandate is necessary to get rid of the problems of free riders as well as to take care of people with pre-existing conditions.  For example, let's say Bob wants insurance.  But he had cancer when he was 2 years old.  He is denied insurance, but needs it more than others.  With the individual mandate, he gets his insurance.  However, since he cannot be denied insurance, others would refuse to get insurance until they get sick.  This is unfair to the insurance company, they would go bankrupt.  So, people are mandated to buy insurance.  And if they cannot afford it, they are given federal subsidies on a sliding scale to purchase insurance at a state insurance exchange. 
  
   Death panels?  This is ridiculus.  The Independent Payment Advisory Board ranks treatments to help doctors prescribe treatments and procedures.  Obama had said if no treatment would of helped a patient, and nothing would come out of treatment, a pain pill would help instead.  So basically, Obamacare sets up a center for analyzing the efficacy of procedures and treatments.  And, thus Obamacare strengthens the system's efficiency. 
  
   The amount of doctors you said would leave due to Obamacare is laughable.  If they said they would, they should of left a while back, as this law is already taking effect, steps at a time.  
  
  And, your source, not the one from Karl Rove, but the one from the AMA, they artificially limit the number of doctors in America, much more than "supposed doctors leaving the profession." 
  
   Currently 85% of emergency room patients do not have a life-threatening condition.  [6    .      http://tinyurl.com... ]    This causes an atmosphere of death and despair in emergency rooms.  Obamacare does indeed raise the demand, from an original 259 million patients to (will be) 289 million patients.  [7.      http://en.wikipedia.org...   ]  This is only an increase of very slightly over 10%.  Thus, the average wait time should increase only by 10%.  However, the emergency room situation will become more humane due to this act.   
  
      -----My Arguments-----    
  
   
  Obamacare, as I have proven, decreases insurance costs.  For the average family, insurance costs will decrease by about $2,000, or about 20%. 
  
  Obamacare creates community rating standards to increase the risk pool and thus lowering the overall liabilities, and equaling lower costs.
  
  Obamacare strengthens Medicare.
  
  Young people up to 26 can remain on their parent's plan.
  
  Obamacare mandates that people purchase insurance, to ensure a healthier nation, greater productivity, eliminate free riders, and end discrimination against people with pre-existing conditions.
  
  There is a sliding scale with federal subsidies and tax credits to help both citizens and businesses purchase health insurance.
  
  Obamacare sets up numerous acts to bring transparency and cost-cutting actions to the health insurance industry.
  
  Obamacare reduces costs by reducing ER visits, and by fairly making insurance companies spend money on actual care, not on lavish CEO pay hikes.
  
  Obamacare creates numerous protections for patients.
  
  Obamacare sets up state exchanges so market forces can reduce the costs of insurance plans.
  
  Thus, Obamacare builds upon bipartisan components, and uses them to fairly expand coverage to Americans, while protecting patients, reducing costs, bringing transparency and accountability to the insurance companies, and reducing the deficit.
 
 So, I await Pro's arguments.