https://www.debate.org/debates/Is-Intelligent-Design-Compelling/1/

TITLE: Is Intelligent Design Compelling?

CATEGORY: Science

First, I'd like to point out two spots where con has made my point unwinnable, or at least far more difficult to argue than it should be.
 First I'd like to point out the more glaring of these- "Pro needs to demonstrate not just the unlikelihood of a non-intelligent cause, but the impossibility of such." The reason this is blatantly unfair can be shown in the following quotes:
 "I also intend to show that Intelligent Design, regardless, is an unlikely explanation for the origin of life and/or the cosmos."
 "In asserting that intelligent design is actually the more likely scenario (as opposed to random chance being the origin of the world around us), I will dispute my opponent's stance that it is unlikely."
 These were from con, and me, respectively. As can be seen, con's position is that intelligent design is unlikely, and my position is that intelligent design is the more likely scenario; meaning I do not have to absolutely prove the case of intelligent design, as con is saying I do.
 Secondly is the following demand: "First, Pro would need to be able to verify the Bible, which he intends to use to demonstrate the existence of an IA..."
 What this means is that I have to prove the Bible to use it as evidence to help prove the Bible. This is a circular reasoning trap that con has set up.
 Now, onto my counterpoints.
 Issue of Falsifiability
 Again, I would like to point something out- unless we somehow go back and see the beginning of the universe itself, we cannot absolutely prove or disprove the existence of an IA. If this falsifiability complex holds weight against ID, it holds equal weight against a non-ID standpoint. Basically, this is irrelevant. Con supports this by saying "One has to ask, what is the different between a universe where the IA doesn"t manifest in reality, and a universe where an IA doesn"t exist. The answer is they are indistinguishable." If they are indistinguishable, then the lack of falsifiability affects both.
 Claims of the Bible's Truth
 As for the claim on the language, I can't be sure without reading in the original language- but I notice that the author in english specifically uses "tongue" when speaking of multiples, and only uses the word "language" when speaking of one. With the difference in word choice, these words likely do not actually mean the same thing. The most likely conclusion is that "tongues" refers to different dialects, and/or accents.
 As for the reducto et absurdum, well, it's an absurd comparison, as Spiderman makes no predictions as to things that will happen. If we started seeing people who could shoot webs out of their wrists, one could (almost) see this comparison as an apt one.
 And here again, with "Thereby, unless one can demonstrate the Bible, or indeed any claimed holy scripture is divinely directed... then one can conclude it offers very poor evidence for its own supernatural claims of an IA creating life," con is trying to trap me. The lack of the ability to prove such a thing is discussed, and con places a requirement for such a thing. I will again assert: we cannot absolutely prove or disprove the existence of an IA, and since both I and my opponents referred to likelihood in our opening statements, this is what the debate should consider.
 Likelihood
 Con states that without IA, random chance is not the only thing remaining. I see two possibilities- the universe was made intentionally, or randomly. I don't see what else there could be.
 Examples of Poor Design
 To counter this point, my first point:
 Some Things Would Not Work If Developed Gradually
 Example 1- Eggs. Specifically, let's take a look at the chicken egg. Every step of the way in the development of the egg has to take place in a very small time frame, otherwise the fetus will die. There are also parts of the egg that would have to exist- otherwise, the fetus would die. These things could not happen gradually, like development without divine guidance requires. Well, it could- if the egg developed as is suddenly.
 Example 2- Sexual Reproduction
 It would take a lot to explain this concept fully, but basically, if we follow the concept of gradual evolution, we come to a point where non-hermaphroditic sexual reproduction has to develop. This means the following things would HAVE to occur: two individuals of the same species would have to mutate into opposite genders close enough, in time and space, to come together and mate. They would also have to both have the desire to mate with the other organism that just happened to develop into the opposite sex, a thing that would not have existed before this point. Again, this is possible... just extremely unlikely. More than extremely unlikely... astronomically so. Unless, there were an IA to drive this occurrence.
 There are, of course, more examples of things in nature that could not develop gradually, but let's move on.
 Prophecies of the Bible
 At least in the Christian Bible, (and, consequentially, in Jewish writings) we see prophecies coming true. And I'm not referring to things like Jesus coming to Earth, I mean things you can't deny. Things we see happening recently, and into today. Here are just some of those. Random guessing, startlingly accurate educated guess, or divine inspiration? You can decide for yourself. The odds for any one of the prophecies made thousands of years ago coming true are low, yet the Bible provides a large number. Even if you only consider prophecies that were fulfilled post-Biblical times, there are quite a few (over a hundred). For example, thousands of years ago it was prophesied that the Jewish people would be scattered and persecuted, then returned to their homeland. The takeover of Israel by the Roman Empire resulted in the mass spreading of Judaism to many corners of the Earth. Scattering, check. WWII, the holocaust. The most well-known genocide attempt of the world. Millions of Jews killed in horrifying ways, for being Jewish, and this is not the only instance of persecution of the Jewish people by any means. Throughout history, we find the Jews being harassed, insulted, raped, tortured, killed, en masse. And then, right after the largest binge of Jewish-hating in history (persecution, check), Israel is re-established. We can see a clear, historically accurate flow between these three events, the first allowing the second, and the second giving way to the third. For those of you who didn't know, it was in 1948, recently in the scheme of things, that this prophecy was fulfilled. Can you claim that these three prophecies were lucky guesses? Sure, you can. But let's look at some more of the over one-hundred prophecies that have been fulfilled in modern times alone.
 Biblical predictions also place Israel as being extremely successful and, despite being surrounded by bigger, scarier nations since its founding in 1948, it still stands. A twin coincidence of a small country surviving against larger foes, and a prophecy being fulfilled by this? Maybe, but if you take into account the predictions of Israel blooming, reviving its old currency, and more- well, I'll allow you to consider the evidence for yourself. We can also see prophecies that are lining up to occur, and more that seem very possible in the not-so-distant future. Prophecy=prediction, and seemingly accurate predictions, too.
 Final Point- Faith Builds Framework for Science
 Many scientists also hold a religious belief- and they often let that guide their work. They use it to help determine what we should see in the world around us. Faith inspires science and discovery, and therefore has at least a minor scientific nature to it- in that it gives some scientists an idea of what they want to look for. For lack of space, I cannot elaborate very much on this point.
 Here are my sources:
 The Bible, of course
 The Daniel Project
  http://www.therefinersfire.org... 
 The American Pageant-Twelfth Edition
 AP Edition Biology-Seventh Edition
  http://www.youtube.com...