https://www.debate.org/debates/the-UK-should-remain-part-of-the-EU/1/

TITLE: the UK should remain part of the EU

CATEGORY: Politics

Firstly I shall begin with the economic benefits of the UK remaining in the EU. The European Union is a group that provides a free market for the UK. This allows us to build up our wealth without being swallowed by commercial giants like the USA and Japan. Between 1992 and 2006 the GDP of the UK rose by "25 billion pounds as a result of increasing wealth within the EU. It is very important, as over half the UK's trade is within the EU, with less than 15% with America. The business department of the UK estimates around 3.5 million jobs are linked, directly or indirectly, to the EU. We also get FDI (foreign direct investment) as a result.
 
 Now for the personal benefits, you are, as a result of the EU, free to travel, live, retire, work and study anywhere within the EU. Also, the EHIC is a good example of a personal benefit to the average person. It gives you the right to free healthcare and insurance anywhere within the EU. Also, many people will of course benefit from the money and jobs shown above.
 
 And finally, political and humanitarian advantages. If business doesn't impress you and you're not too fussed on travelling abroad, then know that the EU is a major driver in improving the lives of people in countries that aren't as advanced within Europe, helping the poorer countries who otherwise would not be able to cope with the modern world. They provide a free market, and use money from the richer countries to help build infrastructure in the poorer ones. Also, the EU is important in stopping criminals who would escape a single country's grasp. It also works against global warming, and is one of the world's leading organisations in the stopping of global warming. It has a political advantage too. The EU is a massive power block, and combined with things like NATO and the UN, it can be used for bringing countries together, and fighting any countries that try to do things which are not acceptable know a days.
 
 All in all, the EU has such massive benefits for the UK, and so few disadvantages, that it is a wonder that people cannot use common sense and still vote for UKIP, and politicians are still trying to get out. Things will only get worse if they do.