https://www.debate.org/debates/Palestine-becoming-a-Nation/1/

TITLE: Palestine becoming a Nation

CATEGORY: Politics

Now note this. I am not against Israel being a nation.
 
 I am against how they became a nation. They practically colonised Palestine in the process of becoming a country.
 
 Now to back up this statement I will show you several maps of there occupation of Palestine:
 
  http://www.freerangelongmont.com... 
 
  http://www.juancole.com... 
 
  http://echosdepalestine.files.wordpress.com... 
 
 As you can see here it shows the Israeli occupation on Palestinian Lands. Now how did it get that way?
 
 Now despite common misconception. The Israeli-Palestinian Border disputes was not a long conflict that has lasted hundreds of years.
 
 It actually originated as a result of an interaction of Early Modern Super Powers of the 20th century.
 French and British powers in that time showed and interest in Mediterranean Trade (Mainly in the Suez Canal region of northern Egypt) that led to in the Indian Markets.
 
 But the Ottomans (now modern day Turkey) had presence their. A navy base in the Levant region of the Middle East. That posed a direct threat to the British and their interest in the Suez Region.
 
 So what do the the French and British do? They divided their colonies and lands in the Middle East in order to make it virtually impossible for the Ottomans to control them all.
 
 A century later , these smaller divided regions of the Middle East become independent Countries.
 
 This was the origin yet what was the trigger to the conflict?
 
 Here is a link to a video that shows the triggers of the conflicts:
 
  http://www.youtube.com... 
 
 Before the Jewish occupation of Historic Palestine Post WW2 (not trying to point a finger at anybody) The region that is called Israel today was a colony Known as the British Mandate Territory of Palestine.
 
 Now here is where I get to my point. Now I do know that there is more info to be explained but I shall go on with that later into the debate.
 
 My point as to why Palestine should have recognized state hood is because like the maps shown above. They were oppressed in many ways. Their lands taken from them ( I'll get to that later) and with the UN plan of 1947 things only continued to get worse from that point onward. That is why Palestine should be given statehood. It will give Palestinians what they want and open up to actually peaceful negations with Israel for the future.
 
  http://www.youtube.com... 
 
 NON VIDEO SOURCES:
  http://en.wikipedia.org...  and
 
  http://en.wikipedia.org...