https://www.debate.org/debates/Direct-Democracy-is-inherently-better-and-more-fair-than-any-other-democracy-based-government./1/

TITLE: Direct Democracy is inherently better and more fair than any other democracy based government.

CATEGORY: Politics

The good things you mention are in reality the flaws of a direct democracy.
 
 1. You have anyone making laws for a nation that everyone in that nation has to follow. This is just not a good idea as most people are uneducated on politics, and what works best.
 
 2. Ill Admit that it does boost voter turn out, but this leads to another issue. See number one.
 
 3. Again you put too much trust into the uneducated masses who often act on emotion and ignorance. While yes in a republic you do have to put your trust in someone to represent you that representative also protects you from the tyranny of the majority.
 
 4. You count on the government being trustworthy. Direct Democracies just like other forms of government can have untrustworthy officials.
 
 You might think that my whole argument is based off not trusting the population, and you would be mostly right. Why place your trust in millions of people to all do the right thing when you can trust only one to a thousand people to do the right thing. The odds are in favor of republics, and other forms of governments. Republics also provide security for the minorities of a nation. Say a white majority nation voted that blacks should give them 50% of their income. It would be the will of the people, and cant be ignored. I understand constitutions are a thing, but what is stopping the majority from voting to abolish one? And if they are denied that what is stopping the majority from rebelling. People fail to understand that. With most other systems if they turn tyrannical you have the minority oppressing the majority, and rebellion is significantly easier than with a direct democracy. Where if the people turn tyrannical you have the majority oppressing the minority. To sum it up in a direct democracy you are placing a lot of trust in people who have no business running a government to run a government all while expecting minorities to stand by and follow the will of the majority.