https://www.debate.org/debates/Rape/2/

TITLE: Rape

CATEGORY: Society

(1.)Non-traditional rape is where a woman is forced to have sex with someone she is acquainted with, it can be her husband, boyfriend, family member, friend or a date even though she says no to it but there is no physical injury that was inflicted to her but there is coercion used in the rape. (161.1.2-3)
 (2.)Non-traditional rape happens in millions of marriages and relationships across the United States. (161.4.1)
 (3.)In many cases of rape, the women knew the man who raped her, he might not of heard her say no, or felt that he was raping her but he in fact was raping her because she did not want to have sex with him even though she did not put up much resistance to it. (167.5.4)
 (4.)Some women who have been non-traditionally raped by men were genuinely frightened by the male because of the situation he created where he could harm her if she did not comply to having sex with him. (172.5.2-3)
 (5.)Women in Kyrgystan feel that being kidnapped by their potential husbands is extremely humiliating which is mainly why they do not want to be kidnapped. (3:10)
 (6.)When brides are kidnapped and forced into marriage there is more abuse in that relationship than there is when a couple gets married traditionally. (6:40)
 (7.)Some brides when they are kidnapped would rather kill themselves then have to stay with a guy that forced her to marry him (7:00)
 (8.)The bride was clearly putting up a fight when the groom and his friends tried to put her in the car. (12:30)
 (9.)Even on the car ride back to the groom"s house she was putting up a fight, resisting being in the car, she was crying and clearly upset about what was happening. (13:15)
 (10.)She kept telling the guys in the car to let her go and when they tried to get her out of the car she put up even more of a fight. (14:25)
 (11.)When the women of the family tried to put the wedding scarf on her she kept resisting, clearly she did not want to get married this way. (14:45)
 (12.)The grandmother believes that it is not a good idea for her granddaughter to get married this way and instead of them kidnapping her he should of came to her the normal way. (23:15)
 (13.)The bride obviously did not want to get married this way, he forced her into accepting the marriage and she even admitted that this upset her. (26:21)
 (14.)When the religious official asked the bride if she came her on her own will, she lied and said yes, she most likely did this because she was scared of what would happen to her if she had told the truth, especially since the people surrounding her was the grooms family. (27:43)
 (15.)The bride said that if she didn"t take the scarf then the groom"s family wouldn"t of left her alone until she accepted it and the marriage. (27:07)
 (16.)The wedding night sheet shows that she was a virgin when the bride and groom got married and that they had consummated their marriage. (35:35)
 (17.)The fact that the bride had said no when they kidnapped her shows that she did not want to get married that way to him, she did not give her consent to getting married in this way, even though she did tell the religious official that she came their on her own will, she was lying because she was scared of what may happen to her if she told him that she was dragged there against her will.
 (18.)Even though she did eventually agree to get married does not mean she wanted to, she was extremely upset because he forced her to get married this way and she couldn"t say no because if she did what would of happened to her? She kept on saying no, and when they consummated their marriage; he raped her because she had not given her sincere consent.
 (19.)The bride was a victim of non-traditional rape.