https://www.debate.org/debates/Resource-Based-Economy-Monetary-Economy/1/

TITLE: Resource Based Economy > Monetary Economy

CATEGORY: Economics

Before I conclude my case, I'd like to thank airmax for promoting further education on this topic. I feel like I didn't cover the specifics of the system enough, and some of his points could have been prevented if I defined    Resource-Based Economy    further with this video:     http://www.youtube.com...        
     I suggest watching the whole presentation if interested. Now to sum up my arguments:
       Money obviously causes many of the world's problems. My opponent has denied this entirely, saying the monetary system is unproblematic.    We have the resources to create a sustainable environment for all people. The first video explains it best. If you want more chocolate, and there happens to be enough to go around, based on chocolate consumption statistics, then congratulations, you have chocolate! If you want 10 kids, then you’re out of luck, because if the system only allows you to provide for a certain number of kids; based on a number of statistics; then you might only have the food and such for 5 kids. This might cause them to steal, but since families that large are uncommon, prisons won't have very many thieves.    As I said in an earlier round, the true goal of an economy is to strategically preserve and create efficiency. The system today demands the opposite. You can't sell the sun. Many things that are more efficient, sustainable, or productive can hurt the current economy. Productivity is inverse to unemployment. Technological unemployment, alternative energy, and Cancer’s simple cure (Google it) are all examples of this. Once we run out of oil and other unsustainable resources, we’ll have to resort to unprofitable resources, hurting the monetary economy greatly.    To change behavior, you must change the environment. People are a product of their environment. Their personality may be genetic, but if you apply those characteristics to different variables, you're going to get different behaviors. Insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result.    Money is an incentive for war, monopoly, corruption, most crime, and other greed. There are other  positive  incentives besides money:     Human nature of altruism    Emotional drive for medical or other advancements    Prestige    Mastery    We must become the change we want to see in the world -Gandhi. If I have an idea, I could propose it to the system (the video presentation elaborates on how that would work). The creation itself is the reward.    Personal interests and passions    Curiosity, like a child, always wanting to do    something     The need to feel useful. If you’re acting like a fat cat, someone’s gonna say, ‘get your life together.’ This also happens today with social life, if you start to show selfish or antisocial behavior.    Non-profit organizations are tangible evidence of an alternative incentive.    For more, see the second video.  http://www.youtube.com...      People aren't going to get the "same small portion of food." Without an economic barrier, we can grow crops as productively and efficiently as possible, creating a population of plants and animals only limited to how fast they're consumed. Communism still has barriers.    If an innovation is infeasible, then that’s the  only  barrier stopping it, so anything good coming from money can be done better with RBE.    Cooperation is part of human nature. We're a social species. Today's economy is all personal concern; but if that becomes  social  concern, it'd not only be beneficial to everyone, but to everyone including    you.    The Golden Rule.    If it's both idealistic and realistic, then people will volunteer left and right to maintain that.    Money creates more problems than my opponent claims it solves. Yeah, you can buy and sell things with it; but the more you understand about money, the less it makes sense. The government can make money out of thin air, and it's not in proportion to available resources. People spend more than they have, so that causes negative amounts of money to exist. Now the global economy is in debt to itself.