https://www.debate.org/debates/Transgenderism/4/

TITLE: Transgenderism

CATEGORY: Society

I'm going to assume this debate is over whether or not a transgender person should be viewed as having legitimate feelings of being the gender that does not correspond with their sex-at-birth, and thus whether that transgender person should be respected through the use of their requested pronouns and other acknowledgements of the gender they identify with. If this is not what you had in mind, please say so.
 
 First of all, I'd like to acknowledge that no matter what, you have a right to call a transgender person whatever you like. Pronoun usage very much falls under free speech, and thus no one can compel you to use one or the other.
 
 However, that does not mean that using the pronoun that corresponds with a transgender person's sex-at-birth is the right thing to do. By refusing to all a transgender woman a woman, or a transgender man a man, you are deeply hurting them.
 
 Gender dysphoria, or distress over the sex you were assigned at birth, is a very difficult thing to live with. People reject you at every turn and refuse to acknowledge your convictions. You struggle mentally to reconcile the life and body you've been given with the life and body you know is the right one. In other words, your subconscious rejects the gender that corresponds with your sex, and identifies with the opposite gender.
 
 The important thing to remember is that sex and gender are not the same thing. Sex is purely physical and biological, not subject to change. No transgender person is trying to change their sex. On the other hand, gender is purely mental, and manifested in behaviour, thoughts, and presentation. (However, gender is not purely appearance. Transgender people have brains that are closer to the gender they identify with than the one that matches their sex. )
 
 The only way to treat gender dysphoria is to live as the gender you identify with. Conversion therapy has proved time and again to not only be ineffective, but also deeply harmful. And of course, having someone continue to bring up the sex you were born as, when you just want to move on and live as your gender for the rest of your life, unreminded of the past struggles with dysphoria you went through, is unnecessarily hurtful and disturbing.
 
 So yes, you can choose not to respect a transgender person and use the incorrect pronouns when referring to them. However, this is rude at best and hurtful and immoral at worst, and thus isn't something you should do if you truly don't hate transgender people. Your beliefs about whether transgenderism is legitimate are irrelevant if your goal is to help rather than hurt.