https://www.debate.org/debates/Feminism-is-used-against-men./1/

TITLE: Feminism is used against men.

CATEGORY: Society

Missed third round. Sorry.
 
 All feminists believe the patriarchy. The patriarchy states that men are in control of everything, from child care to authority. Feminists believe that all cases of inequality have favored men over women. So then how is domestic violence irrelevant? Almost ANY PSA about domestic violence shows feminists saying how bad it is, and the amount of physical/psychological damage they go through (even though women are also at fault of this, yet it is rarely mentioned, since people usually view the man as a coward).
 
 Now onto pregnancy. So the man automatically doesn't get a say in the matter because he had sex? Why isn't the women at fault of this all of a sudden? She has the choice whether to have sex or not. But no, you're implying it is the mans fault only.
 
 I "Lol'd" hard at you argument for child support. It's called "manning up and being a man"? Isn't that completely contradicting the entire idea of both sexes being equal?
 
 Also, circumcision being a religious right for Jewish people? Even though you're not considering the fact that it goes against Human Rights, and is usually performed on non-religious people? Also, the same argument can be made that Female Genital Mutilation is a religious right!
 
 Anyways, new arguments.
 
 Men are constantly falsely accused of rape. Usually, the man is arrested and the "victim" gets money, even without evidence. You can even search up falsely accused rape on men and find hundreds of stories. Here's one that was sentenced at age 16.  http://jonathanturley.org...  and even AFTER she admitted she was lying (years later) she KEPT the money. Whenever a man tries to file for rape, he is viewed as weak or laughed at.
 
 Women constantly complain about being sexualized in media (primarily, films and music). Women complain that the women in films are giving a false portrayal of what women should be like (usually very attractive, skinny, etc.) and call out sexism even though men in films can be considered giving a false portrayal (six pack abs, etc.).
 
 I would post more, but time constraints aren't allowing me. If you want more, check AmazingAthiests videos on feminism