https://www.debate.org/debates/Males-are-superior-to-females/1/

TITLE: Males are superior to females

CATEGORY: Society

I thank my opponent as well, and as I am still unfamiliar as to the workings of debate and this website, excuse me for my relatively inexperienced debate style and etiquette.
 
  A. Physical 
 
 My opponent insists that reproduction and nursing are female components that make females physically superior to males.
 
 Reproduction is as dependent on males as it is on females. Females are unable to inseminate themselves. Reproduction is not something that can be done with only one gender (at least when dealing with the human species). Therefore, for the intents of reproduction, males and females are equal. To address nursing, fathers are as important if not more important that mothers, not necessarily in nursing, but rather, the growth of the child. Children that grow up in fatherless homes are five times more likely to commit suicide, nine times more likely to drop out of school, 10 times more likely to abuse substances, and finally 20 times more likely to end up in prison [1]. Since my opponent's counterarguments have been negated and my argument about athletic records still holds, males are physically superior to females.
 
  B. Mental 
 
 My opponent makes three claims:
 
 1. The IQ difference can be attributed to height differences
 
 2. Females get higher grades than males.
 
 3. IQ tests cannot possibly test for all kinds of intelligence.
 
 Whether or not the IQ difference is based on height is not the matter. Males are, on average, taller than females. Therefore, males have, on average, a higher IQ. I am not debating that a male of the same height as a female is superior, but rather that males, in general, are superior.
 
 If my opponent says that IQ tests cannot measure intelligence, how can he make the assumption that grades can measure intelligence? Grades measure how smart a person is, not intelligence. Grades measure a person's knowledge pool, not one's capability to learn. Grades test nothing more than whether a person pays attention and studies; a less intelligent person can get higher grades than a more intelligent person if he/she studies more.
 
 I understand that there many types of intelligence and because Facebook "Likes" shouldn't really be a basis of argument, take a look into history. My opponent bring up musical and artistic intelligence. Can you name three famous female composers in history off the top of your head? How about three famous female artists? Now try to name three famous male composers or male artists. The same goes for the various fields of intelligence. More famous male writers, poets, psychologists, philosophers, mathematicians, scientists, inventors, rulers, music players, etc. exist throughout history.
 
 Which brings me to my final point, my opponent did not address the second half of my argument, which begs the question, if women were superior to men, why are the contributions made by women so insignificant compared to those made by men?
 
 Seeing as the counterarguments of my opponent have been negated, I believe my argument still stands.
 
  C. Emotional 
 
 My opponent claims that men are more violent and, in turn, are more emotionally unstable.
 
 The rape statistic is a very skewed one. Even if women wanted to commit sexual assault, it would be a lot more difficult for a woman to rape a man. That is a very unfair comparison. As for the military statistic, there are many reasons why there are more men in the military. I could claim that men are more patriotic, for my opponent presented no evidence stating that enlistment into the military has anything to do with violence.
 It seems as if men are a lot more violent than women, but this is due to the media. Surprisingly, more than 40% of domestic violence victims are male [2], meaning the violence towards partners are close to even. Even more shockingly, a single mother is 33 times more likely to abuse their child and 73 times more likely to kill their child [3]. So men may commit more homicides, but women are about as violent as males, especially towards children.
 But this is all besides the point. Even if I were to accept that males are much more violent than females, it is merely a red herring, for violence proves nothing. Emotional stability is defined as the steadiness of mood and the ability to withstand minor setbacks, failures, and difficulties [4]. Women are both less likely to have a steady mood [5] and are more likely to become stressed [6]. Violent or not, according to the definition, women are less emotionally stable than men.
 
  Conclusion 
 
 I have found flaws in my opponents counter-arguments, which keep my arguments standing. Seeing as males are still superior physically, mentally, and emotionally, males are still superior to females.
 
 The floor is now yours, Con.
 
  Sources 
 
 1.  http://www.deltabravo.net... 
 2.  http://www.guardian.co.uk... 
 3.  Marriage, the Safest Place for Women and Children  by Patrick F. Fagan and Kirk A. Johnson
 4.  http://www.ucc.uconn.edu... 
 5.  http://www.mood-swings.net... 
 6.  http://www.naturalnews.com...