https://www.debate.org/debates/In-the-United-States-current-income-disparities-threaten-democratic-ideals./2/

TITLE: In the United States, current income disparities threaten democratic ideals.

CATEGORY: Politics

Hmm.
 
  ==Arguments==
   
 1) Influence  -- Everyone has heard of this before. "Money talks" Guess where else money talks? Within our political system. Although the US's foundation includes equality and equal voices among the people, that is simply no longer truthful. The rich and the poor simply no longer have equal voices. The rich, often with plenty of money to spare, can afford  to campaign. They can afford air time, advertisements, attack ads, and they can afford to skip work. Nowadays air times can cost sometimes up to or over $468,000 for just 30 seconds of airtime on some popular T.V. channels. Now I ask you this. Who gets their opinions heard? A group of wealthy people paying for advertisements or a group of poor people struggling to survive? The answer is clear here. One group of people have a bigger voice than another. This is a clear violation of our democratic ideals of fairness and equality.
 
  2 )  Education -- 
 
 1) People who are educated to college level have a much higher chance of voting.
 2) Poverty hinders and affects a person's education.
 3) Therefore, those living in poverty are less likely to vote.
 This simply furthers my point on fairness. Are these elections fair? Poor and struggling people often don't vote. Consider this. It is perfectly fine for a rich person to ask if they can leave work and go vote, since they can afford the slight loss in income and their bosses often don't care (if they have any lol) However, it is far less likely that someone who is desperate and falling into poverty will go vote, because they need the money and it is probable that they are working labor and that their boss is a lot less accepting.
 
 3) Mental Health--
  A study by the APA has shown that there is a correlation between a person's socioeconomic status and a person's risk for mental disability and psychiatric hospitalization. Furthermore,  this was true no matter what kind of economic hardship the person went through.  
  http://mentalhealth.about.com... ...;
 
 4) Unfair Tax Cuts--  The Rich are recieving unfair tax breaks, and in turn, the middle class and the poor class are paying more to make up. Is this fair? Step back and ask yourself, is the government treating everyone equally? This is another violation of democratic ideals. Our country was founded upon the principles of equality and fairness.
  http://www.aflcio.org... ...
  http://www.faireconomy.org... ...;
 
 
 =====
 That's everything for now.