https://www.debate.org/debates/THW-give-Amnesty-for-Illegal-Immigrants/1/

TITLE: THW give Amnesty for Illegal Immigrants

CATEGORY: Politics

First off,
 
 Thank you for accepting my debate.
 
 I gave no specific referral to the United States. 'Amnesty' for illegal immigrants refers to all nations, including Middle Eastern nations. Nevertheless, I will try to cover all aspects of your argument.
 
 'The US Code, Title 8, is very specific about what constitutes 'illegal alien' and the laws concerning the hiring, aiding, housing, etc. of those who are here illegally. If for no other reason, the term 'illegal' should declare why those who are here without proper documentation must be deported. The US Constitution allows for the creation and change of any existing laws. It defines 'citizen' and specifies the protections afforded by it. If we ignore the US Code and the Constitution, then we may as well just declare complete anarchy and have no borders.
 The reason that people want to come to the US is for freedom and opportunity. Without the Constitution, neither is protected. '
 
 Title 8 of the US Code is a law, it's not apart of the constitution. People come here for amnesty, because of dangers back home such as drug cartels in Latin America, increasing murder and homicide rates and abductions. In fact, net immigration from neighbouring nations such as Mexico are below net 0. The US Constitution can be interpreted in many different aspects. Ignoring the Constitution based on giving illegal immigrants amnesty is flawed, giving amnesty to immigrants does not break the US Constitution, so anarchy is not necessary. The reason people want to come to the United States are for life away from the dangers of their nation, and in comparison to the United States, doesn't relatively happen often. Yes, without the constitution, no one is protected however illegal amnesty breaks no rule of the constitution.
 
 'Without it, we are like every other nation on earth, obliterating the very reasons why the world wants to come to the US. Ignoring it makes us the same as the countries from which they came, and affords no one protection OR freedom. The abolishment of one law is the abolishment of them all. Should murder be ok? Should theft be ok? Do you have locks on your doors? Why? To keep people out? It's no different with our country's 'doors' than it is with the ones in your house, and the reasons are no different, either. You lock them to protect your family. You lock them to protect your valuables. You lock them to keep out things that can bring illness and disease. You lock them so that you can control what goes on under your own roof. Our country has borders for the very same reasons.'
 
 'We are like every other nation on earth'. Every nation has a set of laws regarding immigration illegally. For example, Australia has laws on the hundreds of thousands of immigrants from Indonesia who come in illegally, and other nations like Europe (Germany) who offer resettlement programs for illegal immigrants coming from Syria and Iraq. Although the process is slowly working, illegal amnesty does work. It gives the nation taxes, which pays for your education and your law enforcement, welfare money going towards legal immigrants, contribution to America's diversity. If you are insinuating that immigrants come over the border merely to murder you must be mistaken, they are looking for a new life. Giving an illegal immigrant amnesty is not illegal by any laws. If you're stating about the 'locks' on your door, borders are merely just walls separating two nations. If we 'locked' them we would look bad on the world stage. Over 1,000,000 immigrants from Arabic countries are migrating to Europe, illegally. If we take them in as amnesty immigrants and help them through the process, then it would benefit us much more.
 
 You also state that without borders, there is no nation. May I remind you that America itself is built on immigration. If it wasn't for migration by the Chinese, British, Irish, Germans, Italians, Indian, Pakistani's etc then we wouldn't thrive as much it does today, by a long shot. The Founding Fathers. Some of the Founding Fathers themselves weren't even born in the United States. At the time, illegal immigration wasn't a major concern of the nation.
 
 I attend a high school that has many immigrants, legal or not. I also attend school with naturalised citizens. 95% of them support amnesty for illegal immigration. Put yourself in their shoes. You are escaping a place with no job, money and can't afford to support them, your papers are constantly rejected for lack of proper documentation you cannot get. What do you do? Amnesty. Those people you've mentioned had the papers and documentation to apply, what about the ones that can't get it?
 
 The desire to live here is not because it's 'great' it's because it's a nation full of better life, better wages, job opportunities. After all, not all legal citizens are paying tax.