https://www.debate.org/debates/Are-people-born-Homosexual/1/

TITLE: Are people born Homosexual?

CATEGORY: Society

Thanks for the debate Con.
 I'm here to affirm the resolution that people are born homosexual.
 This resolution in no way necessitates that *all* instances of homosexuality are genetic.
 Simply put, I must show that there are people who are born homosexual.
 
 *Resolution*
 
 Given the definitions provided in round 1, I would be affirming that human beings who are sexually attracted to people of their own sex are existing as a result of birth. 
 But I'm not going that route...
 
 Instead, we all know that this is essentially a nature versus nurture argument, in that Pro is affirming a genetic component to same sex preference while Con negates.
 
 So, I'm affirming that there are people who are born with the sexual preference for people of their own sex.
 
 
 *Preferences*
 
 Humans gotta eat, and they have preferences for food.
 Humans gotta have sex, and they have preferences for sexual partners.
 
 Some humans like bitter and sour foods, and some like sweet and savory foods.
 Some humans like penises and vaginas, and some like mouths, hands, and anuses. 
 And of course, some like all, some, or none of the above.
 
 Are people born with preferences?
 Yes.
 Do people acquire preferences through cultural, societal, and familial experience?
 Yes.
 
 Both are true.
 
 One can be genetically inclined to prefer certain tastes, and one can also acquire tastes throughout their life.
 One can be genetically inclined to prefer certain sexual partners, and one can also acquire sexual preferences throughout their life.
 
 I'm saying that sexual and gastronomic preferences are not exclusively nature or nurture, rather these preferences are some kind of combination of genetic and experiential components.
 
 
 *Gastronomic Preferences*
 
 The sensitivity and aversion to particular bitter compounds in foods is genetic.
 
 "Sensitivity to the bitter taste of 6-n-propylthiouracil (PROP) is an inherited trait...greater PROP sensitivity was linked with lower acceptability of other bitter compounds and with lower reported liking for some bitter foods. "
  http://dmd.aspetjournals.org... 
 
 They even determined which chromosome has this preference influence...5p15.
 
 "Recent genetic linkage studies in humans have linked the ability to taste PROP with a locus at 5p15"
  http://dmd.aspetjournals.org... 
 
 So, while of course people are influenced by their society and upbringing, there are demonstrated, inherited genetics that incline one to prefer or not prefer certain edible compounds.
 People are born with preferences for food.
 
 
 *Sexual Preferences*
 
 It turns out that a preference for the same sex can be inherited.
 
 "These results demonstrate increased rates of homosexual orientation not only in the brothers of gay men...but also in maternal uncles and the sons of maternal aunts...uncles and cousins share inherited information with the index subjects, but are raised in different households by different parents, [so] this observation favored an interpretation based on genetics rather than the rearing environment."
  http://postcog.ucd.ie... 
 
 This trait is inherited in the form of the distal Xq28 which is on the mom's provided chromosome.
 
 "Evaluation of the data by multipoint mapping with the LINKMAP routine of the computer program LINKAGE 5.1 supported the linkage between homosexual orientation and distal Xq28."
  http://postcog.ucd.ie... 
 
 So, just like we can inherit certain aversions and preferences for food at birth, via genetics, we can inherit certain aversions and preferences for sexual partners at birth, via genetics.
 
 
 *Conclusion*
 
 I therefore affirm that people are born homosexual, even if some are not.