https://www.debate.org/debates/Legalization-of-gay-marriage/5/

TITLE: Legalization of gay marriage

CATEGORY: Politics

I am sorry you thought I bypassed your question. The answer is not as simple and yes or no and I explained that. Right, wrong, good, and bad is dependant on culture and time. Was slavery wrong when it occurred years ago? As we see it now the answer is yes. If we were back in that time period the answer would have been no. Beliefs can always change, the same can be said for what we perceive as right and wrong. I limited my response because it was getting off topic. You started trying to debate me on objective morality and slavery rather than focusing on the topic of gay marriage. I brought up the point to show that cultures can change the way the believe as we did with slavery, and as we are starting to do with gay marriage. Even drugs are being legalized. If you take a look at our civilization 100 years ago, the principles and ethics are so different it is almost impossible to compare them. Why is this? Morality changed and we learned to shape our beliefs.
 
 This issue at hand is should gay marriage be legalized. However we look at it, whether it being using objective or subjective morality, the question still remains is the same. Is it morally acceptable for them to marry in our society and culture at this point in time. I believe the answer is yes. If jobs were to discriminate against African Americans, they would be sued or sanctioned for violation of state and federal laws. The same can be said if someone where to deny employment based on sexual orientation. We however are doing this with marriage and it as deemed acceptable because it is considered a religious mater. I stated early and stand by marriage was founded with religious intentions but as of now it is regulated by the government, when this happened we have to acknowledge the fact that we are denying people right based on predisposition. In any other circumstance this would be a federal crime.
 
 I will also add gay marriage does or does not negatively affect anyone or anybody. Some may argue that it is a negative example to our children, but so are drugs and alcohol. In that circumstance we are in the process of legalizing one in more states, and mass producing the other. That does give us a viable reason to ban them, nor is it the same issue. That is just an materialistic item, what we are banning is far worse. We are banning the right for someone to be married. We are invading their personal life so much, that we are telling them whom they may and may not spend their life with. We deem in unacceptable and refuse to give them paperwork, and up until recently they could not even receive the same benefits as married couples.
 
 So to please my opponent and focus on what I had stated previously, at his point in time and how we have set our government laws and regulations, legalizing this is a moral necessity. Should we allow religious institutions to own the right to be bias, and force their will on others. We do and are not allowed to do this with any type of job. We should make the most logical step and give them the freedom to at least own a marriage licence.
 
 This nation has went through many years of bias and hard times. We fought years to give people equal rights in regards to their skin color. Yet here we are making the same mistake again. I urge you to consider the consequences of the past and grant everyone the chance to be free regardless of skin color, race, or religion. We as a nation should be working toward humanism, not deepening the divide. I thank my opponent for this debate, and thank anyone who took the time to read all of this. My deepest gratitude.