https://www.debate.org/debates/Gerrymandering-should-remain-legal-in-the-United-States/1/

TITLE: Gerrymandering should remain legal in the United States

CATEGORY: Politics

In the case for the 2010 republican blow out, this was a reactionary measurement republicans took as a result of Obama"s victory and his terrible health care agenda. The republicans planned these state representative victories and redistricting for years unlike the democrats who were focused on the presidency. The democrats could have had the same effect, but they were focused on the wrong thing.
 
 We aren"t a democracy, but rather a democratic republic, ergo much more of the power is put on the elected government officials who can use that power to realign districts. The politician would use a strategy called hijacking where the districts are redrawn so as to make officials from the same political party run against each other, which would result in one of them being eliminated.
 
 1. Partisan gerrymandering was found constitutional under the basis that minorities were aloud to vote for who they wanted to despite the redrawing of the political borders; they don"t have less of an opportunity.
 
 2. The disproportionality of the borders is not a built-in-bias that particularly gives minorities less of a chance, instead, it is a result of a particular political party not winning the elections thus not giving them a good enough chance at winning.
 
 -The part of the constitution that is in question is the equal protection clause.
 
 3. The redistricting is a strategy to give power to a certain political party, which is constitutionally permissible and here"s why. The polls don"t display the effects of the supposed discrimination claimed to be brought on by political gerrymandering. In the case that democrats have an unfair advantage in republican states as a result of gerrymandering and vise versa, it is clear that neither democrats nor republicans have a disadvantage because their votes do in fact count and it shows in the polls. The seeming favor of one side could just be a result of an official attracting voters from both sides. I do agree that the dilution of the votes is unconstitutional, but the equal protection clause is still upheld because there is no unfair representation and nobody has been shut out of the political process.
 
 In the case for Wisconsin, gerrymandering was undoubtedly evident, but they realized that it was the one corrupt incumbent so they replaced him/her with a group of elected officials. This is true for other states, but the fact of the matter is that political gerrymandering is not unconstitutional. Be this as it may, states such as Wisconsin have found ways to circumvent such a controversial tactic.
 In the case for the 2010 republican blow out, this was a reactionary measurement republicans took as a result of Obama"s victory and his terrible health care agenda. The republicans planned these state representative victories and redistricting for years unlike the democrats who were focused on the presidency.