https://www.debate.org/debates/The-Second-Amendment-does-not-Protect-Against-Oppressive-Government/1/

TITLE: The Second Amendment does not Protect Against Oppressive Government

CATEGORY: Politics

First: I do not feel obligated to debate whether or not an armed populace would be able to carry out a revolution on its own because this question was not clearly stated during any of the rounds and was only posted in the comments after I posted by first argument.
 
 Now going back to the intentions of the second amendment...
 
 Rebuttal:
 "It is clear that from pretty much the establishment of Jamestown the British were intent on colonising the west. The Manifest Destiny was chiefly aimed at the Mexican territories, as well as the remnants of Native American resistance in the far west. The intentions were also known by the French, who took possession of pretty much all the land between the Thirteen Colonies and the Colorado River, hence all the French-sounding places in the Midwest and Canada, such as Detroit, Michigan, Illinois, Fort Duquesne (Pittsburgh), Louisiana, Quebec, etc."
 
 This complete argument is not valid because you are not relating these events in a chronological order in which they occurred in history. For example, the British began colonizing America in the early 1700s. The Manifest Dynasty occurred in 1844. Also, the French started their colonization at a very similar time that the British started theirs and once these European nations had established their colonies, the biggest disputes were between boundary lines. Thus these, among other inadequate parallels don't seem to prove that the American intentions since the start of the war was to move west.
 
 Your arguments in the second paragraph are abstruse and hard to connect to your main idea which is that the second amendment was established to defend against Indians.
 
 Therefore I will just emphasize one key idea of the Bill of Rights. During the time the Bill of Rights was generated George Washington (a federalist was president).
 
 Federalists (definition taking from The American Pageant;A US History High School Textbook) : Proponents of the 1787 Constitution , they favored a strong national government, arguing that the checks and balances in the new Constitution would safeguard the people's liberties. (Let it be noted that this constitution favored Federalism).
 
 This constitution that was favored by federalists was passed for the 13 colonies leaving the anti federalists (people against strong national government) uneasy.
 
 The Bill of Rights was written by antifederalist James Madison about 1 year after the constitution was published. Fearing that a strong national government would not defend the rights of the people he essentially created an extension to it that created amendments that were meant to safeguard most of Americans precious principles. Among these principles was the right to bear Arms. A strong national government obviously would be able to easily oppress their citizens, so in the eyes of James Madison, the 2nd amendment would clearly deem a logical defense against this.
 
 And I did state that I would not respond to your argument concerning an armed populace but back in the early 1800s an armed American populace would be very much be able to defend themselves against their national government.
 
 Your turn! :)