https://www.debate.org/debates/Non-Liberal-Democracies-Are-A-Superior-Mechanism-For-Socialism-Then-Liberal-Democracies./1/

TITLE: Non-Liberal Democracies Are A Superior Mechanism For Socialism Then Liberal Democracies.

CATEGORY: Politics


 
 
 
 
   Alright guys I am going to make this argument in a very simple format. 
  I will present a single historical example of Socialism in NLD's (Non-Liberal Democracies.) 
   Thus if Con is not able to refute these achievements and is not able to demonstrate equal achievements of
  Socialism within NLD's then NLD's will be shown as superior to Liberal Democracies. 
  I may in later rounds introduce more examples if required. 
 
  1.  Chinese Socialism.   
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
  
  The system of which Mao Tse Dong and the first generation of Chinese Communists was born into was that of the later Qing Dynasty. 
   Due to Imperials, agricultural mismanagement, and widespread Opium addiction 113.5-118 Million died untimely  deaths.[?] At a time when 1/4th of all of Humanity lived in the Middle Kingdom(Imperial China)[ the inequality and suffering was on a massive scale. 
  However after a costly civil war with the Nationalists the Chinese Communists won the civil war and established a Soviet Style Planned Economy.  
   A Planned Economy is a form of State Socialism in which the government owns all the property, runs all the industries, has total control over trade, 
  and pays all the wages. In the Words of Albert Einstein "In such an economy, the means of production are owned by society itself and are utilized in 
  a planned fashion. A planned economy, which adjusts production to the needs of the community, would distribute the work to be done among all those 
  able to work and would guarantee a livelihood to every man, woman, and child." This level of Socialism within a Liberal Democracy has never  
  been achieved! 
 
  Beyond that it achieved wonders at a rate much faster then even the United States for a far larger population: 
  U.S. Agricultural Production 1940-1944, Increased at a rate of 40%. China 1957-1958 increased from 185 Million tons of Food Stock to  
  300-350 Million tons of Food Stock an Increase of 60% to 90% in half the time with a far larger population[III]! 
  Not to mention The United States was the only Major Power with undamaged industry after WWII while China had been in a state of 
  civil war, foreign invasion, revolt, and revolution between 1911-1949. This is without a doubt a resounding victory for Socialism that  
  is yet to be matched in an Liberal Democracy. During this rapid level of expansion and collectivization bad weather and local officials 
  that exaggerated the yield caused the final great famine in Chinese History. However due to massively improved production during this 
  period there would be no further great famines in Chinese History even as the population broke 1 billion!  
 
  Summary: The achievement of a Soviet Style Command Economy Lead by Mao Tse Dong caused massive agricultural  
  progress that ended the periodic great famines of the preceding century. This Socialist accomplishment has not been parralled  
  by a Liberal Democracy in all of history and is thus evidence of the Superiority of NLD's in being a better mechanism for achieving  
  Socialism.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  I. http://en.wikipedia.org...  
  II. http://www.populstat.info...  
  III.Socialism 1959, Page 40