https://www.debate.org/debates/Resolved-Hurricane-Katrina-was-an-inside-Job/1/

TITLE: Resolved: Hurricane Katrina was an inside Job

CATEGORY: Politics

http://www.youtube.com... 
 Who could have done it?
 Fox News? No, because they're still figuring out the gramatically correct version of their name. It's "New foxes".
 MSNBC? No, because scientifically speaking, "msnbc" isn't an anagram of "Hurricane", "Katrina", or even "disaster", so that's a complete no no.
 Somali Pirates? Don't be silly, bench! Everyone knows that pirates' time is completely taken up by spouting cute catchphrases, such as "yo ho ho!", "R!", and "shiver me timbers!".
 US Government? No, because they're too busy making sure that the memory-wiping technology doesn't wipe the minds of the people who made it.
 Bahamas? Bahamas? Bahamas? Are you serious? The bahamas is just a nice place for your holidays and nothing more.
 God? Nah, he's done too much for us recently.
 #Same4rationalmadman
 
 Whichever entity manufactured Hurricane Sandy and Hurricane Andrew
 
 Bingo! Bench is on the money! The entity we're referring to if Mother Nature, who causes natural disasters because she's the nature woman, who is nearly half as good as David Attenborough.
 
 Hurricane Andrew was like the Hurricane 1, Hurricane Sandy was the Hurricane 2 and Hurricane Katrina was the Hurricane 2s. They're sort of like iPhones in that like iPhones, everyone is affected by the latest slightly different model.
 Mother Nature is pretty angry at the moment because there have been no female presidents as of yet.
 
 As for all the other Hurricanes and such, they were caused by Brother Nature, Mother Nature's pesky son who sometimes messes around with the controls to see what happens.
 
 1) How can Hurricane Katrina be an inside job when Hurricanes always happen in the outside?
 
 This is an important point. Hurricanes are very much anti-inside and prove this by destroying buildings and stuff. So, Hurricane Katrina can't have been an inside job.
 
 2) People can't fart farts that big
 
 Hurricane Katrina was clearly a fart since a) it destroyed everything in its path, b) it was very fast, and c) its destruction lasts for ages!
 
 3) It was very young
 
 The hurricane was only a week old before it died (1), so it couldn't have been an inside job. Babies don't think about that sort of thing, you see. They're all innocent (apart from being guilty of being really annoying).
 
 4) What a Character
 
 "Katrina" has the same amount of characters in it as "Natural".
 
 5) The almighty proof
 
 This is quite similar to the fourth argument. "Disaster" and "Hurricane" are related to each other, but neither of those words is realted to "Massive Conspiracy/Hoax".
 
  This is like a hurricane, this text 
  It is very fast and 
  very windy and it is a natural disaster 
  it must be quite fun to be in one 
  Nee-oww!!!!! 
  weee~!!!! 
 
 Sources
 (1) http://en.wikipedia.org...