https://www.debate.org/debates/Should-the-government-invest-more-money-in-space-travel/1/

TITLE: Should the government invest more money in space travel?

CATEGORY: Science

I will use this round primarily for rebuttals. I did write a huge response however the tab got deleted and nothing saved. I apologise for the delay.  
 
   Rebuttals  
 
  When I was refering to problems on the Earth I was not just talking about problems like recycling and pollution. I was talking about big problems that we can actually spend time and money on and help save the planet. Here is a statistic about how much exactly the USA pay for spae exploration: 
 
  "NASA's FY 2011 budget of  $18.4 billion  represented about 0.5% of the $3.4 trillion     United States federal budget during that year, or about 35% of total spending on academic scientific research in the United States." 
 
    This money could go towards cancer research. Even a fraction of that money could help save the lives of thousands and could even potentially help to find a cure more seveare types of cancer. We could spend the money on fixing the huge gap between the rich and the poor. Clean water is a huge issue in some countries and this also links in with famine and people dying of starvation. Do you think that getting people to another planet is really necessary at the moment. We can reduce the amount of money being put into space exploration and we could still make it onto other planets before we are wiped out. Even after saying this. I still think that we should be making bigger cuts since I do not believe that it right that we should be moving from planet to planet. Polluting one planet and moving to another planet just so we can pollute that one too. My opponent may state that people will change and they wont pollute the new planets however my opponent has already stated this: 
 
    "Sure, we can encourage recycling and try to stop pollution and all that, what is the probability that everyone will go along with that? Many people have tried to change the world, but the thing is, the world is too big with too many people." 
 
    This means that my opponent agrees with me when I say that the next planets will be polluted. By hopping from planet to planet. Using them and then throwing them away is playing the role of God. Once we get to the stage where we can just leave the Earth and go to any planet we like (that meet certain criteria) then humanity will be playing death and avoiding our species being wiped out. It is always interesting to repsond to someone who complains about death and wants to live forever. But the good thing about life is that it's precious and doesn't last forever. When eventually the Earth is destroyed and humans are extinct, then that will be that. We shouldn't be trying to cheat death and keep looking for ways to preserve humanity.
 
   My opponent also says:
 
   "Exploring our own planet and going into the depths of the ocean to understand it more sounds like an amazing thing, however, it is just as unnecessary as you claimed space travel to be. If we had the time and excess money to do it, it would be great. But we don't." 
 
    Here are the differences between exploring the depths of the ocean and exloring space. 
 
  a) Exploring the depths of the ocean don't even come close to the costs of space explorations.  
 
  b) There is a significantly higher change that we will discover new species of animals and vegetation at the bottom of the ocean than the chances that we will find aliens in space.  
 
  c) Continuing on from b. These new samples that are more likely to be found may help to cure diseases whereas as we know already. There is no known vegetation on any of the planets in our solar system. If we need samples we already have many robots and probes on the planets which can test for samples and send pictures directly to NASA without them needing to send off any more space ships.  
 
 As I have previously mentioned. Yes, space travel is expensive but if you are that keen on it happening it doesn't need to be now. If we cut the money being put into it then we can do this in the long term and still help to solve the rest of our global issues now with the money saved from these cuts. Surely, you don't believe that moving into space to another planet is more important than the millions of people suffering and dying from cancer, starvation and the lack of clean water. Is investing on a project that may never happen really worth that many lives and that much money?
 
   At the moment we only have a slim chance of even getting humanity onto Mars. Do you really expect humans to actually start colonizing multiple planets? When our Sun dies all the planets in our solar system will be obliterated. Unless we make it out of our entire solar system (which is virtually impossible) then we will all die eventually. We should be focussing on making everyones life a happy life and when humans finally die out - at least we would have accomplished something. Moving to another planet wont help to stop wars. It wont help to cure diseases. Even getting people to other planets will be difficult. Imagine how expensive and hard it will be to build houses and shops here so that people can live a normal life. We would be potentially designing the Earth from scratch. As well as this we would also have to be constantly importing food from the Earth. On many other planets their is no soil and plants can not grow. Many of the animals that we eat today and keep as pets will not accustom to the strange, new conditions. Whilst your argument appears to make sense at first. It really doesn't look very convincing when you begin to add up the costs ...
 
   Sources  
 
  http://www.millennium-project.org... 
 
  https://www.google.co.uk... 
 
 
 
 