https://www.debate.org/debates/Libertarianism-is-better-than-Utilitarianism/1/

TITLE: Libertarianism is better than Utilitarianism

CATEGORY: Society

I was not planning on bringing up specific cases as both sides have equally strong arguments from the standpoint that both can put forward a case seems to disprove the opposite philosophy, having said that let me put forward a common case.
 
 In a hospital 4 patients come in, all with different organs failing and all need transplants. Meanwhile the guy in the room next door came in for a check up, with all healthy organs. The doctor realizes by taking 4 organs from the healthy man he could save the 4 patients in need of transplant. Is the sacrifice of one justified in saving the 4 others? (  http://www.justiceharvard.org...  )
 
 The argument I mean to make is not that utilitarianism has no merit and that libertarianism is far superior, but to try to prove it makes a better governing philosophy of human beings, that is that man is entitled to himself, his work and his time. By the same token man is responsible for these things and no one should be in more control of them than himself.
 
 This line of reasoning is present when talking about the redistribution of wealth. That is to take from those who have and give to those that have not.
 
 In nearly all cases of someone attaining massive wealth, its justified. Mark Zuckerberg and Lebron James make up that top 1% of Americans whose fortunes I believe are justified. As in any free market, the money they make is no more than the money we as consumers are willing to pay for that service. If anyone is to blame its the people on Facebook buying Nike's. They're wealth was come by in a justified fashion.
 
 Allowing people to keep what they earn encourages self reliance and hard work.
 
 Libertarianism does not oppose self sacrifice or charity, it opposes the theft of rightful ownership for the benefit of many. However as soon as people become reliant on anyone other than themselves (the government) they become less motivated to work hard or make their own lives.