https://www.debate.org/debates/Muslims-should-all-be-deported/1/

TITLE: Muslims should all be deported

CATEGORY: Society

I don't know what the hell this mumbling about Trump and God is all about, take the marbles out of your mouth.
 
 Bottom line, president Trump has already put restrictions on Muslims from 7 countries, now it's time for him to take it further. You can whine all you want but when Trump makes it law, and your cave living Muslim relatives can't arrive in the USA anymore from any country in the world, then I will be happy. . I'm going to be Trumps right hand man like Hess was to Hitler, I will head the Muslim Removal Agency (MRA) and have them all removed from North America, Europe will do the same.
 
 People are about to reach their limit with these constant bombings and terrorist attacks, it's time to push back, all bleeding heart soft cry babies can whine and complain about it, hey I have a suggestion, why don't you move with them to the desert, eat all meals with your hands and pray 22 times a day and do your bombings and beheadings over there while crapping in a hole because Muslims haven't evolved from the stone age, they are the most primitive and barbaric people in the world. But the majority of people in the USA want Muslims removed, that's why they voted for Trump.
 
 You can whine and cry about me being hateful but the truth is 9/11 was the deadliest attack on the American people and that was done by Muslims, now it's time to remove all the sleeper cell, disgruntled, grubby unshaven, pyjama wearing Muslims from this country, and Europe will do the same, close and fortify the border with Turkey and keep the Muslims back in their home, because there is no place for them here or Europe, and by electing Trump the nation has shown that we don't want them here. We can find our own people to drive cabs and work at Dunkin Donuts.
 
 So you take your whinny, bitchy attitude and go cry someone else a river because your complaints are falling on deaf ears and the ban on the 7 countries is already in place weather you like it or not.. Now I just want it taken a step further.