https://www.debate.org/debates/Palaeontology-Is-the-most-Controversial-Scientific-Field/1/

TITLE: Palaeontology Is the most Controversial Scientific Field

CATEGORY: Science

Palaeontology is the study of prehistoric life forms on Earth through the examination of plant and animal fossils. My agreement is that it is the most controversial field of study on the planet. How can I say this? Because it challenges every religion on Earth to its own validity. Faith rules the world, like it or not. The most prominent is Christianity, followed by Muslims, then Hindu, and Buddhists as the top four. The Christian and Hindu creation stories can be found here:
 
  http://www.bibleontheweb.com... 
  http://www.painsley.org.uk... 
 
 The Muslim creation story in general is the same as the Christian with few exceptions. The Buddhist religion has no creation story, as the Buddha says to not concern ones self with unanswerable questions (a brilliant philosophy in a tremendous number of respects). Now then, what does any of this have to do with Palaeontology? Simple: there is absolutely no mention of any prehistoric life in the text. There are only examples of modern animals native to the area that each story originated from. What does prove? No knowledge of prehistoric life had been ascertained within the time periods the texts where written in. Should the religious books be the true to the start of the world then there should also be mention of animals resembling those of an Argentiosaurus, a Baryonyx, a Dunkleosteus, even a Quetzalcoatlus. However, the only references show snakes, lions, sheep, and eagles. The lack of evidence to show that there where creatures larger and more spectacular than the local flora and fauna is reason enough to doubt it's validity. Only recently, as prehistoric study continues, do the religious movements try and explain the new findings and incorporate it into their original beliefs system. Religion rules the world. Governments are run by it, laws are made in accordance to it, even days off are given to celebrate it. This science alone can show that the Bible, Koran, and others where all written by people in an attempt to explain something vast and mysterious, but only with the limited amount of knowledge at hand. Religions around the world would be found to be a lie and collapse. Palaeontology is thus, more controversial than gay rights, gun control, drug legalization, abortion, or any other topic. Religion has come into play somehow in all these subjects. Only Palaeontology has the ability to topple the only barrier between belief, and true logic.
 
 Summary: This argument is not about whether religion is bad or not, but that Palaeontology is more controversial than better known subjects because of it potential to destroy religion, the worlds foremost superpower.