https://www.debate.org/debates/Its-time-for-Chridtianity-to-become-militant-against-Atheism/1/

TITLE: It's time for Chridtianity to become militant against Atheism

CATEGORY: Politics

Con:  "Pro thinks that Christians ought to become militant, as in take violent action against atheists."  
 
   Nope. Just arrest them and put them in cages. B-)  
 
 Con:  "This is illegal and if taken to the political realm unconstitutional"
 
 
 Not once we take over.
 
 
 *   
 
   As recently as 1990, the U.S. was 86% Christian. Today it is teetering on going into the 60's percentagewise because of the New Atheist Movement and militant atheism in the 2000's.   
 
   In 1990, we barely knew what terrorism was. Now? It's a new terror attack every week in the West. Why? Militant Atheists were so hellbent on opposing Christianity that they became tollerant of anything non-Christian, meaning? Islam.  
 
   Daily headlines prove that Europe is bursting at the seams with Islamists attempting to establish Sharia law and homegrown terror plots. France is swarming with radicals, ISIS threatens they will send Spain back to the times of the Ottoman Empire, and Britain is much too concerned with appeasing Muslims that they are doing away with their own citizens’ free speech.  
 
   And...they wanted Christians to step out of their way and shut up while they pandered to Islam in the name of multiculturism and diversity. Well, it happened, and it caused Europe to freefall into mass chaos via an "immigration crisis". Forget common sense or Islamic theology, as long as Christianity is the one snubbed.  
 
   *  
 
   So...As Christianity is in decline in the West, suicide is through the roof. Multitudes of people have and are killing themselves because they see no point, purpose, meaning, or hope via Atheism being indoctrinated into their minds, polluting their psychological health and well being.   
 
   Notice, Christianity went into a serious decline as militant atheism took root in the early 2000's.   
 
   Deaths from suicide have increased 24 percent from 1999 to 2014, according to an analysis of Americans aged 5 and up conducted by researchers at the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  
 
   But why? In psychology we have a "hierarchy of needs". There are certain conditions that must be met for good mental health, things like purpose, meaning, etc. Atheism provides little, if anything, in this regard.  
 
   *  
 
   Even Richard Dawkins, the king of Militant Atheism, who told Atheists to attack Christians' beliefs at every chance, can now see his irreligion's fatal flaw. Now Atheists, homosexuals, and Christians are being slaughtered like animals in the West by Islamic jihadists. As Christianity is about to disappear completely from the Middle East via genocide and the burning down of churches, Islam was welcomed with open arms from the more and more Atheistic West, and it's completely mindless.   
 
   Richard Dawkins begrudgingly admitted that Christianity is actually our best defense against aberrant forms of religion that threaten the world.  
 
   In a rare moment of candor, Dawkins reluctantly accepted that the teachings of Jesus Christ do not lead to a world of terror, whereas followers of radical Islam perpetrate the very atrocities that he laments.   
 
   Because of this realization, Dawkins wondered aloud whether Christianity might indeed offer an antidote to protect western civilization against jihad.  
 
   “I have mixed feelings about the decline of Christianity, in so far as Christianity might be a bulwark against something worse,” he said.  
 
   But now it's too late. Christianity is going to vanish. And a Christian free West who is not allowed to even exist in the Middle East is becoming overrun with Muslims. Survival of the fittest? Guess who will be left standing.  
 
   Destroy Christianity= No Christians  
 
   Atheism= try to intermix with Islam.  
 
   Islam=don't let nonMuslims exist in our region and go on the offensive against nonMuslims in their region. And...outbreed the less than 2 children households of the West.   
 
   DC + A + I = Islam will own the Middle East and the West.   
 
   Thus, if Christianity is to survive, it must become militant against Atheism and rid itself of one plague to be allowed to resist the other plague.   
 
    http://www.gospelherald.com...   
 
    https://www.washingtonpost.com...   
 
    http://www.cnn.com...   
 
    http://www.cbsnews.com...   
 
    https://en.m.wikipedia.org...   
 
    http://www.breitbart.com...