https://www.debate.org/debates/We-should-fund-more-into-astronomy-and-space-travel./1/

TITLE: We should fund more into astronomy and space travel.

CATEGORY: Science

Indeed, our technology at this moment is not capable of terra forming at cheap costs but you can be assured, that it will NEVER improve and progress unless and until we fund more into it. Just because we do not have the technologies today doesn't mean we shouldn't In the near future. The laws of physics for instance don't make colonizing space impossible, only difficult and that is precisely why I think it's important to increase the attention we give to space exploration. Im not claiming that if you fund today, we will have colonized mars by tomorrow. It is indeed, a step by ste process. We've seen this happen with literally every single form of technology. I've already given the example of the very first airplane that merely lasted 14 seconds. Imagine, if investors then had taken my opponents perspective and decided to stick to horses because its cheaper and already available. It's sad that my opponent and in fact, most individuals today fail to adopt that sort of ambition for space exploration because taking it forward will redefine our species for the better.
 
 It's a big daring jump for our species and wont be easy - that's exactly why it's worth achieving.
 
 Side opposition claims that cosmic catastrophes "are a long way to go". This is not true. It may apply to certain catastrophes such as the sun expanding into a red giant but others such as asteroid impacts and perhaps, even supernovas are quite commonplace in the universe and we need to know how to deal with them as even once can wipe out our entire species.
 
 In addition, there are innumerable benefits that astroid mining can have over deep sea mining where in fact deep sea mining is not much cheaper. These beenfits include more access to clean water supplies, improvements in spacecraft technology and access off- planet resources that are undeniable MORE sustainable and cleaner to extract. Side opposition also needs to recognize that funding will in fact bring money back to the economy. It will not only decrease the prices of rare metals on earth but also create thousands of job and business and predicted to add about a trillion dollars to the economy. Also, most of these asteroids are as easy to reach as the moon and are comparable,in terms of difficulty, to sea exploration.