https://www.debate.org/debates/Marijuana-Legalization/10/

TITLE: Marijuana Legalization

CATEGORY: Economics

My humble greetings to my fellow opponent.
 
 General public, the first question we need to ask ourselves is what are the hazards of using marijuana?
 Some of the common discomforts found when using marijuana include dry mouth, swollen eyelids, bloodshot eyes, loss of coordination and an accelerated heart rate.
 
 Short-term Hazards include:
 
 Anxiety and paranoia
 Impaired memory
 Difficulty in thinking
 Learning difficulties
 Lack of attention and focus
 Poor driving skills
 
 Long-Term Hazards Include:
 
 Respiratory problems
 Heightened risk of infections, especially the lungs
 Poor short-term recall
 Inability to shift attention normally
 Inability to understand complex information
 An increased risk of developing lung, head and neck cancers
 Lack of motivation
 Decreased sperm count in men
 Irregular menstruation in women
 Clearly one can see the imminent danger of marijuana. Now general public if the short term hazards include "poor driving skills", how many innocent people's lives are at stake when driving on the road? And how many have fallen prey on the road due to someone having smoked marijuana?
 
 However general public, if marijuana is legalized, how many school children wouldn't have access to it. Now my fellow opponent will talk about a age limit being implemented to prohibit school children from using it, but hasn't the same thing been done to alcohol but still scholars access alcohol even if there is a age limit. Now since marijuana causes learning difficulties, if scholars have access to it, wouldn't a number of learners perform poorly at school and take into consideration that if this happens, the economy will crumble due to a poor productivity.
 
 Furthermore, my opponent speaks about job creation if marijuana is legalized. This is simply tedious to mention, because such an industry poses a threat to society as we will have a lot of people accessing it easily and a lot of people will eventually become addicts. Clearly on can see that at the end of the day, preventing people from using marijuana is of great benefit to them and to society. After all, "prevention" is better then "cure".