https://www.debate.org/debates/Should-all-Guns-be-banned/6/

TITLE: Should all Guns be banned

CATEGORY: Politics

"I think there should be different licenses for different types of guns but banning all guns would be against the constitution"
 
 This is already implemented! We don't even have a debate then. 
 
  "I never said gun control was impossible I just said that it would be bloody"
 
  Still the same point. That was exactly my point. Australia did it. It wasn't bloody.  
 
 " The United States and Australia are two different countries with two totally different cultures"
 I gave my case. Saying this doesnt argue anything. Apples and pineapples are totally different fruit. So what? They both taste good. At least I gave an example. You have no supporting evidence showing taking guns away will be bloody.  
 
  "wouldn't be 300 million Americans because some of them support gun control so some would not own guns and some would support which would lead to a civil war"
  Completely irrelevant. My point was there's only a million armed forces. You haven't argued my point. 
 Anyway, What you're saying is purely hypothetical. And all I'm obliged to do is say: "i disagree". 
 
   "If we did ban guns what would stop killings sure there might not be any big shootings but criminals and gangs or even people who are mentally Ill or somebody at a school who wants to kill somebody could use a different weapon or get a smuggled in gun"
  
 That's irrelevant. You just said it yourself, It would still stop killings anyway. 
 
  "but the right to own guns is a right that all of us have and if you think that everybody in the united states especially conservatives would obey it your out of your mind"
 
 Sure. But 'banning all guns' is pretty vague. Every single gun? What if you could own a gun if you were a professional huntsman?  
 
  This is my point, From the very start, Con never made clear the resolution, Who has what stance. I had to decipher it from the title. That's not part of the rules of debate. I think con already lost this debate. But for fun, I'll continue arguing.  
  
 
 
 