https://www.debate.org/debates/The-Brotherhood-is-good-for-DDO/1/

TITLE: The Brotherhood is good for DDO

CATEGORY: Society

Thank, you for accepting this debate, and hopefully we can have a civilized debate.
 "The Brotherhood is not good for DDO because even if they"re open to free speech, they"re obviously not open to free people because it seems even though you keep repeating you are NOT racist, you believe that white men contributed most to this world which is not true, and it"s only because they had more power back then and used everyone else like a toy"
 
 White men did contributed most to the world. Here are some examples, printing press developed by a German named Johannes Gutenberg, which allowed poorer people to afford books which helped spark the age of enlightenment. Humphry Davy inventor of the first electric light, which in turned allowed for more electric appliances for the domestic homes. Alexander Fleming pioneered for modern medicine with penicillin, and Isoyznme. Edward Jenner who made the first succesful vaccine for small pox which saved many, many people lives. These are just small examples of how the White man contributed most to society. We're not saying that White's did all the work, we are not denying the advancements of many other culture but the white man contributed most to society.
 
 ", and it"s only because they had more power back then and used everyone else like a toy."
 This is an over generalization made by Con with no sources to back that claim up. He made an over generalization, and assumed that the advancements of the white man was only made possible because they had "more power, and treated everyone else like a toy" which is a false cause.
 
 " What about those who were slaves? What about those who spent all their time providing in many ways for their family? Women and people of all other races. You are being racist. "
 Those who were slaves did contribute to society but I am saying in general the white man has contributed the most to society. I also clarify we acknowledge the contribution to people who are not white or male.
 "The point of that was The Brotherhood is not good for DDO if you are obviously not open to people other than yourself. "
 We are open to the opinions of other people, and value free speech. This debate is made for the sole purpose to help showcase that The Brotherhood, is an organization that wants a place in DDO's community.
 
 Sources:
  http://www.history.com... 
  https://www.thoughtco.com... 
  http://www.history.com... 
  https://explorable.com...