https://www.debate.org/debates/There-are-Only-Two-Genders/6/

TITLE: There are Only Two Genders

CATEGORY: Society

When talking about intersex people, We're talking about defective fertility/a slip up in the process of you will, That results in extreme rarity as defective. Now, I'm not saying "defective" as if they don't belong and should be discarded as people/aborted. In other words, Defective isn't synonymous with rejected in my talking points.
 
 With defective births, Such as someone with Down Syndrome, Or Being born without eyes, Or etc, Does not automatically give rise to third, Fourth, And fifth classes of people, It's just simply indicative if something going wrong at the physical level, This being detective.
 
 Hermaphrodites born with both forms of anatomy still don't have two functioning forms of anatomy, Rather they have one functioning form or the other or none at all. As is can be seen when looking at studies of not a single case of individuals with both of all required parts and pieces to self impregnate or fully functioning parts and pieces, In complete, Of both sexes.
 
 Reproduction occurs within humans due to two defined sexes. There is no third option for reproduction. Just as any detective human (on a physical level) cannot reproduce as whichever sex they choose to do so as. They either still reproduce as a male, Female, Or nothing at all. The "nothing at all" person isn't all of a sudden a new class within biological form, It's simply a person that something went wrong in the birthing process due to two incompatible genes merging, Or other elements that caused disfunction.
 
 This is akin to when two scientists are sexually reproducing plants based on male and female plants. When one scientist realizes a plant doesn't have the reproduction capability of neither male or female, They don't automatically say "Eureka! We've discovered a third sex! ". They simply realize that something went wrong in the birthing process of that plant and that it has been rendered defective and they discard it. (Not saying we should discard 'defective' humans by no means. Just giving the example with another two-sex only, Organism).
 
 Given that human beings reproduce sexually, Under male and female, As is the entire purpose of gender/sex to begin with, They are biologically either only male or female. Men are men, And women are women, Even though sociologically this does not mean they restrictively have to ACT like a man or woman. Men can very well have painted nails and love dressing up sexy in their latest female lingerie, And vice versa. But, They'll still only be capable of reproducing as a male or female. True hermaphrodites, With both sets of fully functioning sexual organs, Do not exist in human beings. There is no tertium quid. But, Even if there was, It would just further solidify the two sexes even more, Considering you can only measure the hermaphrodite by using male and female characteristics, And it would be a complete physical anomaly that resulted in defective genetic merging during the birthing process that still would be unable to impregnate ones self and produce another human capable of reproduction. Leaving only Male or Female as the two sexual genders available that can reproduce. Thus, There being only two genders/sexes.