https://www.debate.org/debates/I-m-Pro-choice-tell-me-why-you-aren-t/1/

TITLE: I"m Pro-choice, tell me why you aren"t

CATEGORY: Politics

"Actually, scientists have not been able to agree on when a fetus is considered a human-being. Something having chromosomes is not equivalent to person hood." The claim that a fetus is a human being is not an opinion, but a fact and one that's backed up by scientific evidence. Person is a legal term. Unfortunately a fetus is not a person, but they should be because they are a scientific human.
 
 "You also may be surprised to learn that state and federal taxes contribute to over $4 billion dollars annually on the foster care system" Can you cite this?
 
 You said that a woman setting up a child for adoption is hard. How? With few exceptions if any, kids don't get messed up in the system. According to  http://www.adopt.org... , it states that over 94% of kids who
 get set up for adoption get adopted within 4 years. I imagine they all get adopted within 7 years. Not only that, but since adoption costs a lot of money, this may sound like a negative but in reality, it means that only rich people are adopting.
 
 In conclusion, over 94% of kids who get set up for adoption get adopted and they get adopted to relatively well off families who want to adopt. How's adoption bad?
 
 Any that don't get adopted in that one fiscal year carry over to the next year.
 
 My theory on this is that the foster system gets their money from kids being adopted since it costs lots of money to adopt from the foster system.
 
 "Some women have disorders and they would have to cease taking medication in order to carry a fetus to term. There are many reasons a woman will choose to have an abortion and it's not the governments job to ban her from doing so." They might be able to live their drug addict lifestyle anyway, but that's a digression. If they planned to set a kid up for adoption and they don't want to anymore, then why would they change their minds?
 
 "Another thing I would like to point out on this subject is that over turning Roe vs Wade will not eliminate or likely substantially decrease abortion." Yes it will. When abortion became legal in 1973, the abortion rate skyrocketed. It then fell down due to contraception control, which I support and so do 80% of Republicans.
 
 "The countries where abortion is outlawed have a higher rate of abortion than countries where it is legal." It's comparable and due to other factors, like Conception control.
 
 In overturning Roe vs Wade, illegal abortions will increase and place women at risk. "There also is the issue on how to criminalize abortion and how to defer a miscarriage from an abortion." Women should get punished for abortions. Once abortion becomes classified as murder, then it should be treated like murder. Anyone who commits an abortion when it is illegal should get punished like a murderer.
 
 "Evidence has shown that the answer to greatly reducing abortion rates is access to affordable birth control and adequate sex education, not banning it." I don't want to ban condoms or sex ed classes. I want abstinence to be encouraged but IUDs and condoms to be a last resort. Also, people should pay for their own conception control.