https://www.debate.org/debates/Another-Abortion-Debate/1/

TITLE: Another Abortion Debate

CATEGORY: Society

First of all voters, at the point where you vote for my opponent you immediately dis-value human life. He specifically states.."I'm not saying absolutely no mother would do this...and we shouldn't legitimize millions of 'safe' abortions in the name of saving a small number of radicalized mothers." He doesn't value life because he agrees that there is a potential for death. He also states... "Because abortion is sanctioned, there are millions more deaths a year than there would be if abortion was illegal." This is completely false. I don't see how monitoring abortions rather than not monitoring them would lead to MORE deaths. It is completely illogical to say so. He says..."True, we run the risk of mothers hurting themselves, but this is a risk we NEED to take in order to stop millions of deaths a year." But he then is valuing one human life over another and saying basically that the mother doesn't matter as long as we save the child. Ends do NOT justify the means. We could dehumanize the mother and still have her living just to save the baby. We must value both lives in this case, and keeping it legal is the only way to do so.
 
 He then states: "It leads to more widespread use of the undesirable act." I don't see how it would be more widespread if it was inevitable. He states "If we legalize abortion simply because a small number of mothers are going to risk the coat hanger approach, we are sanctioning and indirectly causing millions more abortions each year." This is a good thing not a bad thing because the mothers lives are saved .
 
 My opponent states: "Our current abortion laws attempt to walk on eggshells between two heated groups. The fact that they recognize the potential for the child absent its cognition is proof that this should be extrapolated to conception. If the government protects children 3 months from birth because of the future child, they have an equal burden to protect a child 9 months from birth. There is no reason to draw the line, only politics." but this doesn't respond to the fact that our government is still keeping the deaths as moral as possible.
 
 He then states..."I agree that the Constitution is not always right, but I think the basic ideals that our country is built on should be followed." He agrees that the constitution is fallible and that we can't always look to it. He gives no distiuguishment between the good and the bad... therefore it is impossible to evaluate the morality of everything in the constitution seeing as there is no weighing agent.
 
 Onto slavery... it was only an example of a bad thing in the Constitution, proving that it is fallible. See the past paragraph for further explanation.
 
 On a last note... Abortion SHOULD NOT be put in the hands of the federal government because of infringement of rights on the mother. My opponent neglects the fact that the right to life is one of the most important rights and he then states that we shouldn't value the lives of the mothers because abortion is such a "massive wrong." Allowing abortion saves more lives - as proven, so you must vote CON.