https://www.debate.org/debates/Does-the-United-States-today-resemble-the-fall-of-the-Roman-Empire/1/

TITLE: Does the United States today resemble the fall of the Roman Empire

CATEGORY: Politics

In the debate does the United States today resemble the fall of the roman empire I will be taking the negative side. Before I layout my argument I would like point out some flaws in the oppositions argument.
 
 Rebuttal
 Military overspending
 Corruption
 Sharing traits
 
 My first rebuttal is addressing the oppositions point off the military overspending. The United States is incredibly different to the roman empire, and for the purposes of this rebuttal, it's economy is very different. In current days countries are allowed to spend more on military as much of the economy is located overseas. The Roman Empire was in the days leading to it's collapse was far more home based economy. The US has many more allies and has far more trade overseas and can have the freedom to protect itself.
 
 Corruption is although a problem with America's government and the Roman Empire, as you, yourself mentioned, and as I will talk about later, they have completely different ideologies which means that corruption has a different effect. In a empire that is not a democracy, these people go unpunished and keep going, however, the United States are a democracy which means that they can be stopped through mere knowledge of the events, which you have shown people have.
 
 The opposition has stated that Roman Empire and the US have some similar traits. yet what they have in common does not resemble the Roman Empire enough to say that the US is falling.
 
 Now onto my main points.
 The main points for the negative are as follows:
 Different ideologies
 Different times
 Different allies
 Different type of war
 
 As you mentioned the US and the Romans had different ideologies which means that anything that happens have different effects. Do not mention the fact that politicians are bad, or that spending is terrible when the effects of doing such a thing has a tremendously different effect on your career.
 
 The Roman Empire is in a different era to the United States and countries do not simply collapse like they did in the olden days. Things such as the UN and free trading helps countries stay afloat. So unless you just said 'history repeats itself' for dramatic purposes the US isn't going to collapse anytime soon.
 
 The United States has different rules and allies the Roman Empire. A nation these days cannot just up and attack when the day before they were allies. Also countries are far less likely to try and annex for a brief period without serious consequences.
 
 The only way to attack in the times of the Roman Empire was to cut off trade and attack. These days it is almost impossible to just occupy another country without the UN, shutting you down.
 
 So in conclusion the US does share some traits that are shared but due to all different factors, described above, many of the effects have different end results and due to this the US will not repeat the history of the the Roman Empire.