https://www.debate.org/debates/Child-molesters-should-be-tortured-to-death./1/

TITLE: Child molesters should be tortured to death.

CATEGORY: Society

<< 
 But they are human.
 
 << 
 Even the worst form of evil in the world does not deserve to be tortured to death.
 
 < 
 How can you not feel compassion for someone who is so twisted- either born that way through no choice of their own, or made that way by society, again through no choice of their own- someone so confused about right and wrong, or helpless to do what is right? How can you feel no compassion for someone who was once a child like those you want to protect, and had parents that loved them, or never was fortunate enough to? For someone who was victimized until they knew nothing but to do to others what had been done to them?
 
 << 
 How do you know? Maybe they can't help it, maybe their brains are wired in a way that they can't resist the compulsion to hurt children, maybe they do care and don't want to destroy that child's life but can't resist it, maybe they do feel remorse, maybe they don't knowingly do it, don't understand what they're doing, and the consequence of what they're doing.
 
 << 
 You should care because no matter what he does, he is human. And even if you don't care about the child molesters, what about their friends and family who are innocent, who already have to deal of the horror of having someone they love be a child molester. Is it fair to make them go through having their loved one tortured to death?
 
 And if we say it is okay to torture to death child molesters, where does it stop? What about child murderers? What about rapist/murderers who do horrible things to adults? What about murderers? Rapists? Where do you draw the line? You might draw it at child molesters, but others might think that brutally raping and torturing someone older also deserves this punishment. No one is qualified to make these judgement calls, to decide what fate others deserve.
 
 And how will it help anything? If someone is not prevented from molesting a child by knowing it is wrong, not prevented from doing it by the fear of jail time, and of what happens to child molesters in jail, why would harsher punishment stop them? If you don't think about the consequences, harsher consequences aren't going to change anything. Child molesters probably don't think, "Well, going to jail is worth it," they just don't think about it, or can't control themselves.
 
 You want to protect children from child molesters, from having their innocence stolen away from them, but is it any better to have them live in a world where people are tortured to death?
 
 As Clarence Darrow said, "Every effort toward humanizing the world, every effort in dealing with crime and punishment has been toward charity and mercy and better conditions, and has been in the direction of showing that all men are at least partly good, and all men are partly bad, and that there isn't so much difference in men as we had been taught to believe. Every effort that will last beyond the day and the year must have its basis in charity and pity and humanity, or else it cannot live."