https://www.debate.org/debates/Resolved-The-US-should-abolish-the-death-penalty/1/

TITLE: Resolved: The US should abolish the death penalty

CATEGORY: Politics

I don't know why my graphs didn't load, but the death penalty should still be abolished. 
 
 I will restate my argument.
  http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org... 
 ^ Go to the last graph. Then you can see that 43% of the people who are white are going to be executed. 41 percent of the people are African Americans.
 
  http://facts.kff.org... 
 The bar graph on this link describes the the percent of each race that are living in the United States.
 
 As you can see, 64% of the population of the United States is White, and 12% is African American.
 If you compare both graphs together, you can see that more African Americans are going to be put on the death row than Whites.
 
 The Death Penalty still doesn't deter crime.
 
 The U.S has the highest number of crimes. There are people who commit a crime because of someone else's belief or race.  Race related crime will never be stopped even with the death penalty, because there are those whose beliefs are such that no other race has the right to exist.
  
 There is no deterrent to murder at all nowadays Most killers are unlikely to serve more than 10 years and a lot will serve even less.
 
 We now have so many cruel deaths are pleaded as manslaughter and a manslaughter used to get a sentance of at least 7 years. Then, there are always the cases that vicious killers get suspended sentences. Really it's nothing to do with capital punishment and all to do with no punishment at all for most. 
 
 It would be reasonable to conclude that many people would not have been murdered, just because they knew about the Death Penalty and it was in place, however, as you can see from my opponent's graph, this information came from the 20th century. Times had changed. Now its just easier to go out, buy some drugs, on once you're drunk, would you stop to think? Nope! You practically wouldn't even control yourself and the next thing you know, you're on the death row.
 
 To me, I would rather go to jail and learn from my mistakes than to be controlled to not do what I want. At least I'll be able to go through a process call Rehabilitation.