https://www.debate.org/debates/19th-century-European-Imperialism-was-predominantly-negative./1/

TITLE: 19th century European Imperialism was predominantly negative.

CATEGORY: Politics

The points in which my opponent has expended restricts his argument only to British Imperialism in Africa (not European Imperialism as a whole). It completely disregards the majority of other colonies and their mother countries. But in order to effectively refute his refutations and continue my original rebuttals, I will reply accordingly to his limited perspective. 
 
  I did not argue that British Imperialism resulted in the enslavement of many slaves, I argued that European Imperialism was catalytic to an increase in the mistreatment and transportation of slaves [1].  
 
  Secondly, the ability to have private merchants and worldwide trade resulted in ethnocentrism for the Imperial leaders. When my opponent exposes this idea, he emphasizes that the mistreatment and enslavement of African natives was simply due to business. This works against his argument because the enslavement and mistreatment of millions of slaves just to 'buy them for the exchange of goods', then there is a negativity here; treating people as means and not as ends in themselves. 
 
  In addition to the point where my opponent explains how slaves were already slaves to the African Kings before the influence of European Imperialism, this denies the idea that European expansion made the slave trade any better. In fact, upholding a view that European Imperialism not only supported the enslavement and mistreatment of millions of indigenous peoples, but maintained (and perhaps increased) this business only for the sake of commerce[2]. 
 
  In conclusion, corporations can be Imperialistic in accordance with the concept of Informal Imperialism. Informal Imperialism is the indirect rule over a subjugated society subject to the ruler's oppression of culture and socio-economics. 
  Neo-colonialsim and the Imperialism exploited throughout Europe's major colonies, which do not only include Africa as my opponent has limited himself to, during and after the nineteenth century. 
 
  This round, for me personally, has indefinetly been affected by the limited amount of time for which my opponent had posted too early. For the sake of this entire debate, I must reiterate that my opponent has limited himself to Formal British Imperialism in nineteenth century Africa, instead of focusing on the entirety of European Imperialism and its global influences in the nineteenth century, which was requested. 
 
  Sources: 
  [1] Hochschild, Adam. “King Leopold’s Ghost: A Story of Greed, Terror and Heroism in Colonial Africa.” New York, NY. First Mariner Books edition. 1998.  
  [2] David, Saul. “Slavery and the Scramble for Africa.” BBC. np. 17 February 2011. Web. 19 May 2016. 
  [3] < http://isreview.org... ;