https://www.debate.org/debates/Resolved-Government-has-a-Moral-Obligation-to-Assist-Nations-in-Need/1/

TITLE: Resolved: Government has a Moral Obligation to Assist Nations in Need?

CATEGORY: Politics

My opponent wishes the Spanish Inquisition to be a warning against government operating as a moral entity. However, modern government operates as a moral entity. The US governement is nothing like the Spanish Inquisition, so it cannot be the fact that a government is moral which leads to such terrors. America was founded upon moral principles, as I have already established.
 
  John Adams said 
 
 "Virtue must underlay all institutional arrangements if they are to be healthy and strong." 
 
 George Washington himself said (in his farewell address) that 
 
 "It is substantially true that virtue or morality is a necessary spring of popular government." 
 
 Here are a couple modern government agencies that deal with moral issues: 
 The UK government's Research Ethics Committee -  http://www.hse.gov.uk... 
  US Office of Government Ethics -  http://www.oge.gov... 
 
 My opponent questions the credibility of Wikipedia. Astute voters will know that Wikipedia is a highly accurate and credible source, more so than any other encyclopedia. 
 
 Nonetheless, we can look at a dictionary definition of justice: 
 
 1.the quality of being just; righteousness, equitableness, or moral rightness: to uphold the justice of a cause. 2.rightfulness or lawfulness, as of a claim or title; justness of ground or reason: to complain with justice.
 3.the moral principle determining just conduct. 
 4.conformity to this principle, as manifested in conduct; just conduct, dealing, or treatment. 
 5.the administering of deserved punishment or reward.
 (Dictionary.com)
 
  Not one of those five definitions is free of moral language. 
 
  Of most consequence is the fact that I invited my opponent to demonstrate how policies concerning justice, human rights, civil rights, capital punishment etc could possibly be put together without consideration of morality. She declined.
 
  "In response to the Brave New World example, this was a violation of JUSTICE (Giving to each that which is his due). If an individual had perpretrated the spraying it could be considered an act of gross immorality and disrespect for humanity. However, government's crime is perhaps even more serious as it violated the human rights (that which they were due) of these individuals."  
 
 My opponent would have it that the fact the act was perpetrated by a collective means it could not be considered an act of gross immorality.
 
  The act is not actually prohibited by any article of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, for example. After all, a government has a right to keep civil order, and the use of such pacifying agents as tear gas is not outlawed. It is only moral consideration that makes the use of Soma especially distasteful to us. Anyway, since it has not been shown how justice and human rights are free of moral considerations, my opponent doesn't have much of a point here. 
 
 Aristotle's definition of justice doesn't help my opponent, appearing as it does in his  Ethics . Indeed, in the larger sense, Aristotle sees justice as a synonym for virtue. Aristotle himself says 
 
 "Justice is the moral state in virtue of which the just man is said to have the aptitude for practising the Just in the way of moral choice". 
 (Aristotle, Ethics, Page 88) 
 
  "my opponents' statement [that justice is impossible without morality] makes justice merely an aspect of morality."  
 
 Spaghetti Bolognese is impossible without tomatoes. This does not make Spaghetti Bolognese merely an aspect of tomatoes, nor does it limit tomatoes to being merely an ingredient in Spaghetti Bolognese. Dancing is impossible without a body. This does not make dancing merely an aspect of the body, nor does it limit the body to the activity of dancing.
 
  "Government cannot have personal beliefs it is an entity which is designed to be a framework for justice" 
 
   "It is wholly inconceivable, to the logical mind, for a framework that is designed to follow strict laws be able to determine the morality of those laws."  
 
 Governmment is not a mere framework. Neither is it designed only to follow the law. Government is an active participant in establishing justice. 
 
  "We are dealing with the entity of government whose sole obligation is the protection of its citizens."  
 
 Assertion without warrant. 
 
  "1. Moral Obligation~ A duty to act based off one's beliefs  
  My opponent conceded to this definition and therefore it stands that only the individual can have a moral obligation."  
 
 A collective can and does act based off its beliefs, as can and does an entity such as government. A government is made up of individuals representing a political party, so it should be no surprise that there are common beliefs. 
 
  "Instead of promoting equality the Belgians separated the tribes into two groups through the identification of physical characteristics. " 
 
 The tribes were already separated into two groups! Besides, I have pointed out that the Rwanda example is not even relevant. 
 
  "When we force government to receive aid, we harm international relationships, allow government to commit actions which it cannot be held accountable for, and also jeapordize the lives of the citizens by causing social and eonomic disruption."  
 
 None of this has been substantiated.
 
   Closing Summary 
 
 I have established that a collective and/or entity can have beliefs. 
 I have established that government can be and is a moral entity.
 I have established, via a consequentialist argument, that government has a moral obligation to assist nations in need. I have presented further arguments that to assist nations in need is in the interest of national sovereignty. 
 
 Therefore I urge you to vote PRO. 
 
 Thank you to my opponent for the worthy challenge and an educational debate.