https://www.debate.org/debates/Jeremy-Corbyn-Would-Make-A-Good-Prime-Minister/1/

TITLE: Jeremy Corbyn Would Make A Good Prime Minister

CATEGORY: Politics

I thank my opponent for his response.
 
 1) Rebuttal
 I agree that Jeremy Corbyn's handling of the Ken Livingstone case was poor. However it is not unusual by any means for senior politicians not to be expelled from the party after making questionable comments. For instance the current Foreign Secretary, Boris Johnson was not expelled or suspended from the conservative Party after calling Black People, "Piccaninies with Water Melon smiles". No action was taken against him and he is now foreign secretary. Tory MP Aiden Burley was cleared of any Racism or Anti Semetism by the Tory Party after he organised a Nazi themed stag do. I am not saying that what Ken Livingstone did was acceptable or that not expelling him was acceptable but that my opponents cherry picked examples do not represent how things are done in other parties. One example of Labour being tough on Anti Semetism was when earlier this year Newham Councillor Obaid Khan was banned from the party for making anti semetic remark and in the last few days Labour expelled Moche Machover for an anti semetic article he wrote. My point is simply that Labour under Jeremy Corbyn is nothing out of the norm in this regard.
 
 I couldnt find anything online about the Labour Party Marxist's anti semetic leaflets and that is why I have not challenged that point. In terms of Corbyn's hezbollah comments it is true that he made those comments. However this was at a meeting where he was advocating peaceful resolution and he needed to get people round the table to discuss peace. He may have been insensitive with those comments but I think it is fair he say he said them to try and bring about peace in the region.
  https://www.unitetheunion.org... (JN7434)%20A4%20Tory%20Racism%20Brochure%20SIN11-26629.pdf
  http://www.newhamrecorder.co.uk... 
 
 2) Conclusion
 
 Before I start my conclusion I would like to thank my opponent for what has been an interesting debate.
 
 Corbyn is a man of principle. Unlike most members of parliament he did not line his pockets at the public expense during the expenses scandal of 2008. He claimed just "8:70 for an ink cartridge which put him as the lowest expenses claimer throughout the entirety of Britain. Furthermore he has consistently stuck by his beliefs even when they are very unpopular. He was arrested for protesting against the Apartheid when Thatcher, the then Prime Minister was calling Nelson Mandela a terrorist. He was one of the Labour Mps to protest against the Iraq war. He advocated for dialogue with Sinn Fein and the Ira during the troubles and was demonised in the media as a result. And it was through dialogue with Sinn Fein and the Ira that peace was achieved. He also went against the norm to protest for LGBT rights and was once again demonised as a result. An important job of whoever becomes Prime Minister should be too restore the public faith in politics and Corbyn's principle could certainly help to achieve this.
 
 Corbyn's policy of reinstating maintenance grants will help attract more people to university. As my opponent intimated in round 2 of the debate Maintenance grants are a major reason why 8% of working class students drop out from university in the first year. A huge part of this debate has been centred around tuition fees so I will not go into it in depth but will simply say that while my opponent claims tuition fees help working class people go to university there is no evidence for this. Correlation is not causation. Furthermore all of society benefits from having better educated people coming out of university who are not saddled with high debt's.
 
 Corbyn has promised to invest in the NHS and this will help alleviate pressures on the health service. His policy of nationalising the railways is not only very popular but will encourage green transport because it will bring prices down. I explained this in my earlier arguments and also how nationalisation will mean there is more money to invest in the railways.
 
 On the economy it is we have both made our arguments and it is difficult to argue on way or the other simply because economists jump both ways on so many issues.
 
 I dont really have a great deal more to say so over to you CON.