https://www.debate.org/debates/obama-is-not-a-socialist/1/

TITLE: obama is not a socialist

CATEGORY: Politics

For Subpoint A.
 "These statements obviously define President Obama as a Socialist."???
 When Obama gave speech was trying to unify the country. he was saying that we should help eachother.
 "There are some things we do better together"
 And just because someone doesn't agree with the Policies of "a true Capitalist", does not mean one is a socialist.
 " Finally he goes on to state that we have collective responsibilities to each other and that there are some things that we do better as a whole people."
 It also lines up with ideals of a good person. He was simply saying he wanted to help his fellow Americans, something that Bush failed to do.
 
 For Subpoint B.
 He is not talking about 'spreading the wealth' if that's what your thinking. Hes talking about the millions of Americans who get screwed by insurance companies denying coverage. And that is the major goal of almost all societies. Furthering the community as a whole. Not just socialist societies.
 
 For contention 2
 "It will lead to eventual financial loss by the insurance companies because they will have to support people that they normally wouldn't have accepted because of the increased risk"
 yeah, these guys are raking it in. There making $ by the billions.
 CIGNA Corporation 4.8 Billion Revenues 800 million profit
 WELLCARE HEALTH PLANS INC 800 million revenue loss 50 million
 HUMANA INC 7.8 Billion profit.
 So they wont lose much, but that's besides the point.
 
 "So, the health care programs of Obama will take from the wealthy (insurance companies) and give to the poor (those who can't afford health insurance"
 Don't we already have that though? Take from the wealthy and give to the poor?
 Yes, we do. They're called taxes. again we pay for public transportation, police, schools and teachers, firemen, the military, we pay for nearly everything. only when health care is offered to the public is it "socialist."
 Government in America, has been spreading the wealth around since the beginning.
 
 And guess who had a higher tax rate than Obama? Regan! "Taxes were above 35% for the top marginal tax rate, they were at 50% in 1984 when president Regan got reelected, at one point it dropped to 28% in 1986 but for 6 years it was much higher than what we have now." "The 14.8% tax rate that we pay right now is the lowest its been in 60 years." It use to be 18.2% under Regan.( The young Turks)  http://www.youtube.com... 
 
 So who is more of the socialist? Regan? or Obama?
 
 if Obama is a socialist, then so is everyone who sends their child to a public, government run school. Where the Government "owns the means of production" and determines who gets what. Ignoring Teacher's unions.
 
 Obama is not a socialist.
 If he was, He would say he is. And I'm pretty sure that he is not saying he is not a socialist because he doesn't know that much about it. I'm sure he knows what it is based on the fact that he is brilliant.
 
 Watch this clip of obama speaking
 go to time 5:30
  http://youtu.be... 
 
 Thanks for debating.