https://www.debate.org/debates/Gun-Control/127/

TITLE: Gun Control

CATEGORY: Politics

I would like to start my argument with thanking my opponent for posting on time and creating this debate. Now lets begin.
 
 See here, you posted 67.5% homicides done with guns. Says where? You never sited your source. Also, how do you think taking away guns will help? It will simply disarm the law-abiding citizens. News-flash, criminals won't follow the law. If we make guns illegal, do you think that will stop the criminals from getting a gun? Totally absurd to say. Did you notice that meth is illegal almost nation-wide of the united states? Yet people still get meth through meth labs and you know guns can easily be made.
 
 Our founding fathers weren't blind to this. They under
 
 In Kennesaw, Georgia they made it a legal requirement for everyone to own a gun. Guess what happened? Crime dropped 89% compared to the 10% state-wide. What does this show? Well it shows us how if Criminals know that if people have guns they won't attack them, because their life is at risk. No this is not a very small town at all. After they enforced this law, "the city's population in 1998 was recorded at 14,493 - a sharp increase over the 8,936 residents recorded in the 1990 census."
 
 "What we need, is better background on those that buy guns, as well as reduce gun shops in our country. With it, we can reduce the unnecessary violence that plagues our country."
 
 "A quick review of Michigan gun laws shows that law abiding citizens wishing to own a gun for self-protection are strongly regulated and actively discouraged. First, they have to take and pass the Michigan Basic Pistol Safety questionnaire. Then they have to apply for the Ten Day Handgun Purchase Permit to buy the gun and make sure they find and buy the gun of their choice within 10 days, otherwise they have start the process all over again. When they make their purchase, they have to fill out a Michigan Pistol Sales Record form and make sure the pistol has a valid firearm Safety Inspection Certificate. " - mic.com
 
 We already have really strict gun policies and we have to take long tests to get our carry permits. Guess what, criminals. If they want to get a gun, they can simply steal one/black market one then they can shoot up whatever place they wish. They won't bother wanting a carry permit if they are criminals. We would simply be putting more restrictions on the LAW-ABIDING citizens.
 
 Also you say we need to reduce gun shops. How will this help? Criminals are going to get their guns either way. Like I have been saying over and over. Criminals are simply what they are. People who break the law. We would simply be hurting our society if we enforced these restrictions and going against what our founding fathers planned for us. Also, if we take away gun shops we would be hurting our economy. People with families own gun shops, if we take away gun shops we would be taking away their rights to run their free business. Do you really wish to hurt our business owners, just to make them more vulnerable and lose their one job to put bread and food on the table?
 
 In conclusion. Stricter gun laws won't help our society, but only harm. Because criminals are law-breakers. Period.
 
 [Sources]
 [1]  http://rense.com... 
 [2] http://mic.com...