https://www.debate.org/debates/Hamas-has-no-right-to-shoot-rockets-into-Israel./1/

TITLE: Hamas has no right to shoot rockets into Israel.

CATEGORY: Politics


  I am not dodging your points. The debate calls for this “Hamas has no right to shoot rockets into Israel”. I am pointing out that they quite clearly do have a right. I won’t repeat the same facts and the same history to prove that. 
  Again, my opponent is missing the point. The point is not, “Are Hamas’ rockets an effective way to fight Israel’s occupation”? No. Obviously they are not effective. The purpose of the rockets is to try and do  something.  As one of my favorite Political Commentators Dan Carlin once said, (paraphrase), a Democracy that has no safety valves, like Democratic vote, or freedom of speech, or right to belief, freedom of press and information, freedom of assembly and protest, freedom of travel, and so on, will build pressure and eventually explode. In this case, as I said before, Hamas is simply an ugly mutation of the ideas and feelings that in a functioning Democracy would have been discussed. 
  Instead of this, Israel has continued to bomb and attack Palestine. It has continued to occupy and militarily regiment the lives of every Palestinian with the principles of racism and intolerance. Palestine is without an ally. They have a bad habit of rousing up Nationalism, a U.S. pet peeve. Yes, history has proven that Uncle Sam will support Radical and Violent Religious intolerance 9/10 times to protect their assets,  cough, cough  Operation Cyclone, etc. etc.,  cough cough . 
  Indeed, a basic rule of International Politics will state that your rights as a country are solely dependent on your services to the powerful. Israel does a lot of service to the powerful, and thus, they continue on their warpath, unfettered by the big guys. Palestine is not so lucky. They have very little to offer, especially when they are constantly squashed by Israel. 
   “it does not do any good for Gaza because it provokes Israel to kill civilians”  
  What? You aren’t getting it. They aren’t seeing this as a chess game. This is freedom and thousands of years of religion and land rights. They aren’t going to pack up and go home. They have no homes to return to, literally, thanks to the bombing. 
   “…it would not be smart of Texas to attack Mexico”  
  Intelligence has almost nothing to do with it. Texas would fight to the last man for freedom. If not Texas, imagine a country like France under Nazi rule. Do they just roll over and die? “We lost! Oh Well!” That would never happen. The country, even if it gave up officially, would be unstable and dangerous and violent until the end of time. 
  Israel continues the war and the occupation and it is almost solely their fault that it continues. 
  Stats from the last Israeli attack in Gaza: 
   64 Israeli soldiers dead, 3 civilians dead  
   Almost 2000 Palestinians dead, 75% civilians.   
   800 Palestinian rocket attacks,   
   1,300 high-tech air strikes from Israel  
   In 2014, Palestine killed 6 and injured 34 Israelis in 3055 rocket attacks  
   During Israeli retaliation Israel killed 1,123 Palestinians and injured 7,800 more.  
  Obama maintains his position that “Israel has the right to defend itself. Meanwhile, the UN has been condemning Israel for years. As of 2010, there have been 79 resolutions in direct criticism against Israel. Israel has killed almost 8000 Palestinians. Palestine has killed 1503. Israel has killed almost 70% Civilian, while Palestine has killed 59%. 
  You tell me who “has the right”. 
    
   http://www.foreignpolicyjournal.com...  
   http://www.btselem.org...  
   https://www.jewishvirtuallibrary.org...  
   http://www.mfa.gov.il...  
   http://www.ochaopt.org...  
    
    
    
    
 