https://www.debate.org/debates/Do-Barbie-dolls-have-a-negative-influence-on-young-girls/2/

TITLE: Do Barbie dolls have a negative influence on young girls?

CATEGORY: Society

Thank you for posting this. Should Superman be banned or batman action figures? They clearly are "platstic" and muscular and "perfect." By your logic, we should ban all action figures because they have negative influence on girls.
 
 You said that barbie dolls encourage girls to be skinny:
 
 I say this wasn't the intent and this is the people's perception. People's perception can be wrong and biased sometimes. For example, in middle schools and maybe high school there are tons of people swooping at any remark hoping to link it to something sexual. This shows that people are eager to swoop down on something, whether it be a product, joke, or celebrity and perceive it to be the worst. Furthermore, on to the point about it encouraging skinniness? Why is this bad? Barbie dolls are manafactured in America, and America is famous for it's obesity. Obesity causes social stigma and causes girls to be the subject of rude jokes, so in reality if barbie dolls help these girls see at a young age that being skinny is not only pleasing to others but good for them and their health as well, then I think that's ok. I say enough with the "Just be yourself" stuff. You can still be yourself and lose a little weight.
 
 "At a young age girls are being influenced by this doll, what she should look like, and what kind of life she should lead. Young girls strive to achieve this look which is life threatening to obtain. "
 
 Let me ask you this, are most girls in AMerica dating Mr Barbie and living as a fashion model or beauty model or whatever barbie does? NO! Many girls in America have productive jobs, they forget all about barbie. I have never seen a grown women aspring to be a barbie doll tell me if you find one that does.
 
 Furthermore, barbie is simply the brand of the doll making company, this doesn't mean all barbie dolls are skinny and plastic. For example, Arabs have "Fulla Barbie dolls" which adhere to more middle eastern images of a "perfect woman." I say the barbie doll brand is not necessarily a negative influence, only the type of dolls.
 
 And I'm pretty sure barbie dolls don't encourage skinniness in the first place, I think it's more of the media that does this, barbie dolls are simply there. And think about it, would you want a fat doll for your child? The barbie company has to sell something pleasing, not something like a fat ugly doll, because what if your child aspires to be like the fat doll instead of the skinny one? I think that would be worse for society. Vote con if you agree.