https://www.debate.org/debates/Resolved-Voting-should-NOT-be-based-on-age/1/

TITLE: Resolved: Voting should NOT be based on age

CATEGORY: Politics

While I do take pity on you for not posting your argument, I have not yet posted mine. In consequence, I will take this time to present some of my ideas on the matter. They will be concise arguments, but I would like you to answer them in the next round of debate.
 
 1. Are we really proposing to change our whole voting system?
 If there isn't a problem with something, there is no reason to propose a solution. In this debate, because you are pro, you hold the burden of proof and must prove that there is a problem with the current system that needs to be fixed. How do you plan to change the voting system? What will it be based on? You cannot simply say that you don't want it based on age, because then people could register their 5 years old children, or even their newborn children to vote! What alternatives are there to age? It is the best way to universally categorize "voters" and "non-voters."
 
 2. In this debate, you must prove that this will cause less discrimination than the current system. As many of us know, voter ID laws are one of the things that politicians have used to keep the minorities of our country out of the voting booths. How will you propose a different way to decide who can vote without incidentally causing misrepresentation of a community?
 
 3. Is this really how we should be spending our valuable time?
 As you may or may not know, this past year's (2013's) congress was one of the least productive ever. We are at a time in this nation where there is not nearly enough cooperation to get the work done that REALLY needs to get done. You will need to prove to me that the current voting system is such a problem that it needs to be addressed in a time in the US when we struggle to get anything done, much less change the very foundation on which our government lies.
 
 Keep these questions in mind. I await your arguments.