https://www.debate.org/debates/IVF-Debate/2/

TITLE: IVF Debate

CATEGORY: Science

Despite issues with cost and medical complications, ethical implications can rise from the advances in IVF technology. Genetic screening allows the parents to see the sex of the baby, as well as whether or not the baby will birth defects, chromosomal issues, or genetic medical problems. The ability to see these about the baby things raises ethical issues- when is it okay for the parent to decide the embryo should be destroyed because of genetic factors? If the couple sees that the baby will have medical issues, they may want to destroy the embryo and others like it to prevent the baby from having to deal with the medical problems when it grows up, especially if they have a healthy embryo. In this case, the parents, if they believe that life starts when the egg is fertilized, will have to decide which of their offspring they will get rid of. Seeing that the embryo has medical issues makes any parents more likely to decide to destroy it in place of a healthier embryo than if the child was conceived naturally. In natural conception, the parents get what they get and don't have the pressure of choosing which embryo has the better genes.
 
 If IVF technology with regards to genetics continues to advance, we could be able to eventually change the genes of embryos and create "designer babies." The things that could be changed could range from eye color and gender to fixing medical issues and maybe even things like intelligence or athletic ability. Multiple issues could come of creating "designer babies," including the potential deterioration of the concept of, "survival of the fittest." This could potentially halt or drastically change human adaption. In the case of some sort of epidemic or disaster, naturally, only the best would survive. However, if we were to make it so people could choose genes that are seen as the best, there is a risk of every human being somewhat alike. In this situation, one disease could wipe out an entire country because everyone could be so alike that no one would be "strong enough" to endure and adaption or development would not work the same way as it would if there was genetic variance. On top of this, if "designer babies" became big enough of a deal, a race similar to an arms race or space race between countries could surmount of who can create the best people. This can cause an irreversible change to human characteristics.
 
 Sources:
  http://www.nytimes.com... 
 
  http://kidshealth.org... 
 
  http://edition.cnn.com...