https://www.debate.org/debates/Over-half-of-all-reported-rapes-are-likely-false/1/

TITLE: Over half of all reported rapes are likely false

CATEGORY: Science

Now to start off with, rape is a crime that is very hard to prove in that you'll have to prove that consent was not given. Feminists and miscellaneous policy makers would like you to believe that cases of rape not being forwarded for prosecution or cases not ending with a punitive outcome, then this is proof of "rapists" not serving their due time. This simplistic way of putting it does injustice to evidence and some reasonable objections which prove this is a very dubious claim from the other side.
 
 As can be suspected, from an institutional level and from academia there is a blatantly biased view towards the assumption of presumed guilt of the accused. We have seen time and again bogus statistics with patently flawed methodologies being used to arrive at figures swaying far from reality, such as the "1 in 5 women will be raped in college campuses", that have been thoroughly debunked again and again, nevertheless being used by policy makers as a source of reference when making new legislation(1). It reeks of a problem that runs deep on an institutional level eloquently put by Pennsylvania State Law Professor Philip Jenkins who described the pervasive perception that women don't lie about rape among feminists and feminist "jurisprudence" as an "unchallengeable orthodoxy" (2).
 
 A clear-cut example of this institutional attitude is much evident at the workplace where men have now started to assess and read the landscape in order to avoid being on the receiving end of a false indictment of sexual harassment because of which they would wind up having their careers in shambles. Men have decided to respond in kind by not befriending women, not helping women out - not even opening doors for women. Many go so far as to avoid being one-on-one with women in the same room or closing the office door, all in an attempt to cover themselves by having third-party witnesses "present". Ironically at the end of the day it ends up actually biting women in the rear end by not allowing them to advance in the workplace, getting the help they need, developing contacts, etc (3).
 
 This bizarre outlining of today's America might seem to be taken from some outlandish 1984, dystopian type novel. It's real and happening because of the culturally pervasive notion that lies about these sexual matters are rare.
 
 Yet what do institutions and feminist-oriented academia really care to know about false rape accusations? Why isn't there any research into the connection between rape and rape fantasies that over 90% of women have had and that even one-third to two-thirds indulge in occasionally (4)? It ultimately begs the question of whether women engineer or steer encounters in that direction so as to simulate raped or entice the feeling of being raped albeit in a controlled environment. In the current hook-up culture in which women are encouraged to explore their sexuality, guys can be led on to things that women give a black check to and later regret. In fact, there are evolutionary reasons as to why women regret casual sexual encounters, much more so than do men. (5)
 
 Police not only identifies sexual regrets but mental illness and sociopathy as potential causes for women making false claims. 85% of people suffering from borderline personality disorder, BPD, are women and BPD affects 5.9 percent of the US adult population at some point in their life. Doing the math using official figures from 2014, that would mean that about 12.3 million of US women suffer from BPD (6)(7). BPD is characterized by an inability to properly regulate mood, thoughts and self-image which can result in reckless and impulsive behaviours - and that's only counting BPD. There are many more psychiatric disorders among women of which the connections to making false claims, either of harassment or forcible rape, has not even been attempted to be answered by feminist academia or by institutions.
 
 Then what credence can we lend the institutions aimed at combating sexual violence happening to women when the occurrence of false rape - the lion share of which affects men - are not seriously looked into? I say we give them none. There is a but for the sake of abridging references we can focus on psychiatric disorders and rape fantasies. Police and district attorneys who work with sex crimes are certainly well aware that there is a link. Because of the inept attitude society has in exploring what is actually going on, it inextricably falls in the lap of those said people.
 
 When the US Air Force's Office of Special Investigations headed by Dr. Charles McDowell investigated rape cases of Airforce personnel on Air force bases throughout the world. 556 cases were forwarded and out of those 256 owing to ambiguity they could not verify rape. The remaining 300 cases were then looked at and out of those 27% were false, either due to recantation or because of deceptive results from the polygraph tests. Subsequently he developed a 35 criteria listing traits common among those had made false claims. Three independent judges later reviewed the remaining cases using this criterion. Only when they unanimously agreed did they determine a false claim. At the end of the day, the false rape allegation rate was 60%. (2)
 
 It's these gray areas that are usually left out. In this case a proper investigation was made into these gray areas where evidence was not clear and the rate went drastically up.
 
 Another study looked at 109 cases of forcible rape that in one small Midwestern city of 70,000 denizens between 1978 and 1987. This particular city was selected because the police department wasn't overly burdened with police cases and thus had the means to effectively go thoroughly through these cases in-depth. Among one of the procedural precautions was to not use police discretion to clear a complaint even if they suspected it was unfounded. The accuser was then asked to take a polygraph test. Upon being asked to complete the test, the declaration of a false allegation could only be made when the accuser spilled the beans and conceded that no rape had occurred. 41% of the accusers admitted to it being false. (8).
 
 Take note that the allegations were ONLY counted as false when the accusers themselves eventually admitted to their false charges. Hence, 41% represents if anything a rock solid floor. Furthermore, going out on a slight conjectural limb here, because the research was carried out in a small metropolitan area rather than in an anonymous city wherein criminality and unscrupulous behaviour are far more prevalent, it would not be unreasonable to suppose that the country's average rate would be higher.
 
 During a follow-up study a similar analysis was used to conduct investigations of all the cases of forcible rapes over a three-year period at two large Midwestern universities. Polygraph tests were not of the procedure, yet 50% of the complaints were found to be false. 53% of those cases were cited as the accuser needing an alibi(8).
 
 What's a sign of good qualitative research are the conservative approaches use by both Kanin and McDowell to ensure that they rather have an undercount than an overcount.
 
 According to a 1996 department of Justice report ""in about 25% of the sexual assault cases referred to the FBI the primary suspect has been excluded by forensic DNA testing". The DNA exclusion rate remained constant over several years. Also, 20% were found to be questionable if DNA was added. National Institute of Justice's survey of private laboratories also demonstrated consistent with FBI numbers a DNA exclusion rate of 26%. (2)
 
 I also argue that it appears to to have become more socially acceptable by women to make fails allegations of a sexual nature, rape included. (to the point where men have read this trend and responded accordingly). Here are thirteen random examples of varyingly different reasons of false rape claims (9). Three girls made a joint statement against a homeless man because they feared they would be punished for being late to school(10). 13(!) women made a joint rape accusation against a boy because they perceived him to be a "player"(11). Reading these cases shows how women go to extreme lengths to incriminate men, fabricate evidence, self-inflict wounds, etc. Despite years of imbuing the the seriousness of rape in the public consciousness, it does not seem to have gone through to these women.
 
 In summary of this round, looking at the studies (more studies and police and prosecutor testimonies will be presented in next round), already presented problem with the "sexual harassment industry" due to cultural push to want to believe women"s stories, the unaccounted factors and the fact that it is becoming more socially acceptable for women to file false claims, it already points to the likelihood of over half of all rape allegations being false. There's more where that came from in the next round.
 
 1. http://www.thedailybeast.com... 
 2.  http://www.ipt-forensics.com... 
 3.  http://www.telegraph.co.uk... 
 4.  https://www.psychologytoday.com... 
 5. http://news.utexas.edu... 
 6.  http://datacenter.kidscount.org... 
 7. http://www.medicalnewstoday.com... 
 8.  http://sf-criminaldefense.com... 
 9.  http://thoughtcatalog.com... 
 10.  http://www.freerepublic.com... 
 11.