https://www.debate.org/debates/Should-every-person-proved-their-DNA-fingerprints-picture-to-the-law-when-we-turn-18/1/

TITLE: Should every person proved their DNA, fingerprints, picture to the law when we turn 18?

CATEGORY: Politics

Stated by you, "And, for the record, comparing DNA on paper would not be efficient at all. It would be done by computer." Don't they usually post them on paper before putting them up for computer?
 
 "Trying to match a DNA sample from a list of actual suspects would be a lot quicker than trying to match a DNA sample from a list that constitutes the entire population." Well of course, why would they look up for DNA from somebody in Ohio when the crime happen in Texas? Just look up local area.
 
 "You have still given no evidence or numbers to back up your statement "Most polices and FBI can not find the person right away." I let you know that from my experience this is not the case. In most people that I see getting caught, they are caught right away (or at the very least, very soon)."
 
 It's because I said in round one, no cited, all common sense and logical only. I'm not going to break the rules that I made already.
 
 As I was saying about DNA is not private. When a child is born, the nurse or whoever there take your hand/foot prints right away to label the child without asking your parents.
 
 There is a cost, freedom wasn't free. The law was made to give people freedom and make sure everybody is equal. Without law, there will be no freedom right?
 
 Your questions,
 
 1)Who would have access to this genetic database?
 Answer, The hospital would have one to be able to tell who the dead body is without the ID on them. Also the crime lab should be access to it to label all the "Jane Doe."
 
 The insurance company or any other company would not be allowed to get any information because they do not have permit from the person who provided DNA.
 
 One question to you, your statement, "You are getting a slightly higher amount of safety, but at a very high cost of liberty."
 
 I would rather have higher safety in life than crime rate.
 
 Would you prefer to have safer lives or dangerous lives for your children or grandchildren? Think about it.
 
 Since the crime rate is still going higher we would have to step up the law to lower the crime rate.