https://www.debate.org/debates/Nature-cant-pull/1/

TITLE: Nature can't pull

CATEGORY: Science

Very interesting argument, but it has flaws you see, the universe as we know it completely balanced, equal, etc. Including; energy, atoms, mass and everything in between. You cannot create either of these fundamentals nor can you destroy it. For your theory of the universe is expanding I agree it is true, but eventually the velocity of the expansion will decay to the point of gravity will cause everything to start imploding which the effect of gravity is ever-constant and universal no matter how far the universe has expanded. The universe will eventually undergo another big bang as we know it, and repeat the process.
 
 Now back to your original statement which is gravity doesn't pull is not the real argument, the byproduct of mass and its effect on spacetime is that a vacuum like effect it has between bodies of mass. Nature or the universe or whatever term you may like to use likes to be balanced so for mass which in the perspective of spacetime is unnatural, so when it occurs that a mass appears on an area of spacetime the body of mass distorts it and the effect is relative to its mass proportionally. Spacetime therefore, likes to return to its original state kind of like a rubber band.
 
 The mechanism you seek is actually regarded to be a theory no matter how it's perceived its laws and effects are yet to be truly examined by humans. But to my understanding gravity or aether to me works more favorable as a fluid, an analogy would be say: imagine a surface of water (spacetime/aether) and on the surface are buoyant objects (we are imagining this on a 2d plane since its too complex and unnecessary to imagine on more planes) now if we were to drop a object of any mass into this water then all the buoyant objects would get drawn/carried (whether its getting pulled or pushed cannot be explained) towards the centre of which the object had been dropped since the surface has been distorted. Now imagine this but in real situations it is almost inconceivable but we must make the most of what we can understand, all in all its a matter of which mechanism seems more logical and which follows the known laws our predecessors have set before us. I agree on some of your points but the mechanism I believe in is gravity and the aether acts as a wave and is ever-present coexisting with spacetime.
 
 Taylor (1876)