https://www.debate.org/debates/Gun-Control/140/

TITLE: Gun Control

CATEGORY: Politics


  What is OBJECTIVELY TRUE, is that Gun ownership is harmful to the society at large and to the individual gun owner, I believe I have made this case through well reasoned sources and made a sound statistical case as such, In reply Con has provided ideological ramblings devoid of meaningful data to support them.  Regarding the 2-Million defensive gun uses statistics:  
 "  First, there is the social desirability bias. Respondents will falsely claim that their gun has been used for its intended purpose—to ward off a criminal—in order to validate their initial purchase. A respondent may also exaggerate facts to appear heroic to the interviewer.    Second, there’s the problem of gun owners responding strategically. Given that there are around 3 million members of the National Rifle Association (NRA) in the United States, ostensibly all aware of the debate surrounding defensive gun use, Hemenway suggested that some gun advocates will lie to help bias estimates upwards by either blatantly fabricating incidents or embellishing situations that should not actually qualify as defensive gun use.    Third is the risk of false positives from “telescoping,” where respondents may recall an actual self-defense use that is outside the question’s time frame. We know that telescoping problems produce substantial biases in defensive gun use estimates because the National Crime Victimization Survey (NCVS), the gold standard of criminal victimization surveys, explicitly catalogs and corrects for it. " -"How To Manufacture A Statistic",  http://www.armedwithreason.com...  
 
  In regards to Con's 2nd amendment argument I just frankly don't care. I don't care what your ideology is, American society is    NOTHING    like it was when the constitution was written, we are primarily urban where we where once primarily rural; we are primarily federal where we where once primarily state governed. The gun is nothing like it was when the constitution was written either, An expert shot could put 3 rounds out of a musket in a minute, an AR-15 can put out 30 rounds in a few seconds. Things change. I believe I have adequately provided a reasoned response with   verifiable   sources establishing that Gun ownership is unhealthy for individuals and detrimental to society, and at least, gun controls should be put in place to reduce the risks of death.  
 
 