https://www.debate.org/debates/human-have-the-ability-to-feel-agape-pure-love-for-another-non-bloodline-related-human./1/

TITLE: human have the ability to feel agape;(pure love) for another non bloodline related human.

CATEGORY: Society

Dear opponent, you just presented the question "is it possible for a human to value another above themselves?" and you just gave a real case in this world were the phenomena happened so I don't think it is a debatable issue anymore,and I don't think it is a matter of " is it possible " anymore because yes it is possible and it will be discussed in our debate.. but I think the more important question is "why they do it " rather then "can they do it" because of course they can under many world facts.
 We humans behave and are characterized in a specific form due to all detailed circumstances that we didn't choose for our self's such as birth country , traditions, religion , events that had an a huge impression to our lives , and in addition to education and much more things that we don't actually choose, thus we become the human beings we are today and everything we do is due to some reason or some past impression we had on the topic so we act according to this title.
 The sentence you stated "the complexity of the human mind and the frailty of the human body " is true and it does tell us that studying a human behavior is possible but to a certain level because some random ideas pop into someone's mind and the idea is sometimes considered random and random is an issue far away from science so we are able to study the human behavior to a certain limits because of the randomness that is in the system .
 Now to build your ideology towards this you will have too kinds of mentality and both can't be proved right or wrong because it is a matter of choice, thinking, and attitude.
 the first type of people will do it and will sacrifice their lives in the name of love and will put others in front of themselves in importance and they will do it for many reasons : first reason because they think the ultimate way in giving life a meaning is through love and sacrifice and if a person gives his life in order to save others it will be the golden form of humanity and power, other of the same kind do it in the name of religion (imitating Christ when he died to forgive people ) , others live in a culture were sacrifice is the best thing a person can do so you can see it is largely emotional act . And they will eventually do it and it is possible.
 the second type of people will rationalize it and when you rationalize such emotional topic it will be considered petty to sacrifice because such types of people think that a person is granted life for one time and under all conditions a life should be maintained and protected, so they wont do it because they value one's own life more than everything .
 So the issue here is a matter of how a person sees it and it is a ratio of thinking and emotions is what make this sacrifice possible or not.
 I personally don't think I can sacrifice myself for another person but if something happened and my anger reached an uncontrollable level I might do it but with an objective mind with no pressure I say I don't do it because love is relative and non-stable and changes from a person to person and at the end it is a matter who you see it now how it is known because sacrifice and love are experiences not theories