https://www.debate.org/debates/Laws-against-Domestic-Violence/1/

TITLE: Laws against Domestic Violence

CATEGORY: Society

Pro makes a good enough point against my Castle argument, which was weak and I only had it there because I like having lists of at least three. However, none of your points address my other two points. So, I will restate them.
 
 1. Why should there be a special law against domestic violence? There are not laws for domestic rape, domestic murder, or domestic theft. If a husband beats his wife, he should get a harsher sentence than a drunk who punches another drunk in a bar. That is why there is no set penalty for crimes; the more heinous a crime's circumstance is the harsher the sentence is. So, a bar fighter may only get a slap on the wrist, while the abusive husband who broke his wife's jaw serves a year in prison. There is no need for a separate law. Why must there be two charges for the same crime, assault and domestic assault?
 
 2. The crime itself must be reported. Why does a woman allow her man to beat her? Perhaps she gets something out of the relationship that is worth the abuse. Perhaps she got married knowing full well her husband-to-be was abusive. Perhaps she thinks she can change him. Perhaps she prefers his wealth or the gifts after the beatings. Or maybe she enjoys the attention from concerned strangers.
 
 Who are we to judge (in a court of law) if there is no complaining witness? If there is no witness, there is no crime. Regardless if there is a law against domestic violence, it must be reported. The law does no good if no one uses it, and since there are laws against assault, there is no need for another one.
 
 Pro says they have a life to live, and if they choose badly and don't want help, isn't that their choice?
 
 If society allows women to be beat, and women to accept their being beat, that is a problem with society and/or the individuals involved. However, there is no need for duplicate laws to address this. What needs to happen is women need to be treated/viewed with respect from society/husbands. No law will change this.
 
 Vote Con.