https://www.debate.org/debates/Liberalism-has-made-terribly-negative-effects-to-the-United-States/1/

TITLE: Liberalism has made terribly negative effects to the United States

CATEGORY: Politics

First, I"m truly thankful to Policemanbob for this opportunity. I"m going to be straight with you, I"m a conservative/libertarian leaning individual and really think we can both learn. I truly agree with you, but I think your overall idea Is at least partially incorrect. Also, thank you for your service if you are indeed a policeman. Truly, thank you.
 
 First, I"d like to point at that the majority of your arguments aren"t against liberal ideas at all, and are actually about post-modern, neo-Marxist ideas that are held by a small minority of liberals. Attributing those ideas to liberalism as a whole is like attributing white supremacy to conservatives as a whole. It"s simply not the case, although there is a small minority that believe in white supremacy.
 
 Secondly, all those ideas you have mentioned have not impacted the US in any lasting way as of yet. I would agree with you that those cancerous ideas are pushing the US in a negative direction, but have luckily not resulted in lasting laws, or other effects, at least on a federal level. However, positive things like women gaining the vote, the end of segregation, and other truly good things have happened as a result of liberal ideas.
 
 For this next part, I openly admit that I could be wrong, and invite you to correct me. I view the right and the left as saying two different things the right seems to me to say "hey, societies have hierarchies and if you shut up and work hard and do your best, you can make life good for you and your family so your kids have a better life than you". The right likes the idea that everyone can move up the hierarchy. The left on the other hand, also recognize there is a hierarchy, but they know that being on the bottom of the hierarchy really sucks. So they try to help those that are at the bottom in any way they can. Without the right, the hierarchy would collapse because there is too much mobility, and not based on competency. But without the left, the hierarchy would collapse because all hierarchies collapse when their is not enough mobility up the hierarchy (like with soviet communism).
 
 The above paragraph is the main reason I wanted to accept this debate is to illustrate this point. The left is necessary to push for helping those in need. For those reasons, I believe that liberalism has not made as terribly negative effects as it could appear to the US.