https://www.debate.org/debates/Rise-of-BRIC-nations/1/

TITLE: Rise of BRIC nations

CATEGORY: Politics

First, I must thank my worthy opponent for accepting this debate. As a guide to my opponent and all those judging, first I will attack my opponent's contentions and then I will ask my CX questions.
 
 CON
 
 1: Russia is a military threat to U.S. and our allies.
 My opponent stated that Russia is on a confrontational course and has the ability to stand it's ground. Please look to the resolution. >Resolved: That, on balance, the rise of Brazil, Russia, India, and China (BRIC) has had a positive impact on the United States< These statements do not show that Russia HAS negatively impacted the U.S., therefore they hold no ground in this debate. Considering the war in Georgia, look to the resolution again. We are discussing the impact on the U.S., not our allies, so this must be thrown out of our debate as well. My opponent also stated that Russia's power may keep growing. We are discussing the impact the rise of BRIC HAS HAD on the U.S., and as this statement does not prove that Russia HAS negatively impacted the U.S., it must also be thrown out.
 
 2: Indian workers endanger U.S. security.
 I do not completely understand how this has anything to do with our topic. India is making progress in it's nuclear sector. That has not had a negative impact on the U.S. in any way. Con also stated that it endangers U.S. security, but has not shown how this has had a negative impact on the U.S., because suspicion is not a significant negative impact, if it is a negative impact at all.
 
 3: Outsourcing
 My opponent states that India outsourcing has created anxiety in some workers, which is not a major issue. My opponent also states that a significant number of jobs have been lost to India, which I can disprove. According to Finance and Development magazine, 0.3% of total employment in the United States has been lost to outsourcing. That is a minuscule number of jobs, and not significant in this debate, so it should be thrown out. Even if my opponent is correct, and 16,197 jobs have been lost in 2004, that is not a significant negative impact, considering there is 300,000,000 Americans in the United States, which is a small, negligible number, if not recoverable. Note that this is an 'on balance' resolution, which means that a very small percentage of jobs lost (less than 1%) is not a major issue and should be completely thrown out of this debate.
 
 I would like to point out that this resolution concerns Brazil, Russia, India, and China. My opponent has not provided any contentions considering Brazil or China, so we must assume that he concedes that Brazil and China has a positive impact on the United States.
 
 Since my opponent has not had an opportunity to attack my contentions, I will not extend them.
 
 CX questions: I do not feel the need for me to ask CX questions in this round.