https://www.debate.org/debates/People-Saw-Living-Dinosaurs/1/

TITLE: People Saw Living Dinosaurs

CATEGORY: Science

I never said dino DNA proved humans lived with them.  I only said it proves that dinos were around in the past 10,000 years. That paves the way for the rest of my evidences which conclusively demonstrate that not only were dinosaurs living on earth with humans, but humans saw some of them alive.
 
  "You bring up interesting cases, but where's the scientific evidence to verify these claims?" 
 
 Please be more specific.  What, exactly, are you asking for?  I've provided you accurate depictions of dinosaurs in ancient art, even people hunting a dinosaur!  Is the art not enough?  Must I give you a photo or video?  The ancients' iPhone batteries were conveniently dead during every dino encounter, so all we've got are their murals and carvings.  But I doubt that would satisfy you anyways; would you not simply accuse the evidence of being doctored?  
 
 In other words, what is the bare minimum it'd take to convince you that people saw dinosaurs alive at some point in history, short of me dumping a live dinosaur on your doorstep?
 
  "How did these people know that they were dinosaurs?" 
 
 What relevance does this question have to the topic at hand?  The word  "dinosaur"  was not invented until the 1800s[13]; so the artists in question could not possibly have been aware of the word, nor does it matter.  Bats were called  "birds"  in the 7th century[14]; does that mean people didn't see live bats in the 7th century simply because they called them by a different name than we do today?
 
  "How do we know that they are dinosaurs vs. the artist's imagination?" 
 
 Are you seriously suggesting that the powerful resemblance of the ancient art to modern reconstructions of dinosaurs is all complete coincidence?  Please, speak your mind plainly, so you can hear for yourself how absurd your idea sounds.
 
  "Solid evidence is required in order to determine these answers. As far as i know, there have been no bones found which would potentially prove that dinosaurs lived with humans." 
 
 In the late 1800s, Geologist F.S. Homes, Paleontologist and Curator of the Charleston Museum, discovered  arrowheads , an  axe , a  human jaw bone  and other  human bones  in the Ashley Beds of South Carolina, mixed together with  Iguanodons ,  Duck-billed dinosaurs ,  Ichthyosauruses , and  Plesiosaurs fossils .
 
 Here is an excerpt from his book,  The Phosphate Rock of South Carolina and the Great Carolina Marl Bed [15]:
 
 
    Not long after finding the above named relics of human workmanship, and engaged in our usual visits to the Ashley Bed, a bone was found projecting from the bluff, immediately in contact with the surface of the stony stratum (the Phosphate-rocks); we pulled it out, and behold a human bone! Without hesitation it was condemned as an "accidental occupant" of quarters to which it had no right - geologically - and so we threw it into the river. Alas! we have lived to regret our temerity and rashness. A year after, a lower jaw bone with teeth was taken from the same bed, and now we have it in the cabinet[...] Subsequent events and discoveries show, conclusively, that the first human bone was "in place", and that the beds of the Post-Pleiocene, not only on the Ashley, but in France Switzerland and other European countries, contain human bones associated with the remains of extinct animals and relics of human workmanship, proving most conclusively that the Carolina specimens were found "in place"[...]   
 
  "The Source "DNA sequence from Cretaceous period bone fragments" was verified to be a hoax. It was revealed to be a human Y-Chromosome after several studies." 
 
 I think you made a mistake, because your source says nothing even close to what you are attributing to it.  It was never shown to be a hoax, and I'm sure Woodword et al. would be greatly offended at this outrageous accusation. 
 
  "What caused the extinction of the dinosaurs? Several things: 
  
   1. Meteorite impact and environmental changes" 
 
 This makes no sense.  Meteorites do not have a grudge against dinosaurs.  Something that wipes out all dinos will also wipe out all other forms of life, like mammals, insects, etc.
 
  "2. Volcanic ash and gas which suffocated many dinosaurs" 
 
 Now you're getting closer.  The artwork depicting those little dudes hunting (or roping) that Sphenacodon, well, that's from Pompeii, and Pompeii was destroyed by Mt. Vesuvius, which indeed suffocated all life in the area under volcanic ash and gas.
 
  "3. Diseases wiping out entire populations" 
 
 What's so special about pterosaurs, T. rex, and those little raptor things that they should all be wiped out by disease, but alligators, crocodiles, ceolocanths, snapping turtles, komodo dragons, pythons, mammals and other life forms survive relatively unscathed?  This is another explanation that makes no sense, and is nothing more than wild (unfounded) speculation.
 
  "4. Food chain imbalances which left many dinosaurs to starve" 
 
 This is so vague and such a non-explanation that it hardly deserves a response.  How is this relevant to the topic anyways?  How does it prove that  all dinos  died before humans had a chance to see them?
 
  "It's highly unlikely for dinosaurs to have survived, those that did eventually evolved into birds." 
 
 To have survived what?  
 
 The fact of the matter is, the only  reasonable  explanation for the apparent dinosaur extinction is the fact that people loved to kill them and make a name for themselves.  Yes, I'm referring to the dragon slayers of old, going back all the time to the Gilgamesh Epic (where he slew a dragon) to the Medieval Ages where legends of dragon  *cough* dinosaur *cough*  slayers abounded.
 
 What makes more sense:  a meteorite hated dinosaurs so much, to the exclusion of all other lifeforms, that he decided to wipe them all out, or, people didn't like gigantic lizards eating their farm animals and making them scared to go outside at night, so they put on a suit of armor and stabbed those darn beasties?
 
 What happened to the dinosaurs is the same thing that almost happened to alligators in 1960.[16]  Alligators were put on the endangered species list because people loved to kill them.  Can you blame them?  Alligators killed 3 people in a single week in 2006, all of them in Florida![17]
 
 There are plenty of other case studies of dangerous animals being driven to extinction by humans, like the Vietnamese Javan Rhino which was wiped off the face of the earth in 2010.[18]  If it weren't for conservation efforts (which people weren't interested in during the Middle Ages), plenty of awesome beasts might also be extinct today, like the Elephant, Lion, Giraffe, and Komodo Dragon.
 
 Let's face it:  even the most ferocious T. rex was no match for the cunning and wit of its human adversaries.  The brute instinct of a monster is no match for our intellect, even though it might be able to get away with eating a maiden or two, before some valiant peasant takes up a sword and sets out to make a name for himself.
 
 I've got some more ancient artwork of animals that most scientists want you to believe went extinct before humans ever saw them.  It's not as cool as dinosaurs, but would you like me to show it to you?  
 
 [13]  http://academic.brooklyn.cuny.edu... 
 [14]  http://bestiary.ca... 
 [15]  https://archive.org... 
 [16]  http://www1.american.edu... 
 [17]  http://www.cbsnews.com... 
 [18]  http://news.wildlife.org... 
 
 