https://www.debate.org/debates/the-ACLU-is-a-criminal-communist-group-and-should-be-disbanded-by-the-justice-department/1/

TITLE: the ACLU is a criminal, communist group and should be disbanded by the justice department

CATEGORY: Science

the ACLU, or the American Criminal Licentiousness Union, is a criminal cabal, undermining the tenets of America, and trying to destroy this nation from within
 
 they attack the boy scouts, the flag, the military, God, Christians, and pretty much anything good
 
 they support liars, criminals, terrorists, child molesters, and democrats, not necessarily in that order
 
 Following are some of the stated goals of the ACLU, from its own published Policy Issues:
 
 the legalization of prostitution (Policy 211);
 
 the defense of all pornography, including CHILD PORN, as "free speech" (Policy 4);
 
 the decriminalization and legalization of all drugs (Policy 210);
 
 the promotion of homosexuality (Policy 264);
 
 the opposition of rating of music and movies (Policy 18);
 
 opposition against parental consent of minors seeking abortion (Policy 262);
 
 opposition of informed consent preceding abortion procedures (Policy 263);
 
 opposition of spousal consent preceding abortion (Policy 262);
 
 opposition of parental choice in children's education (Policy 80)
 
 -- not to mention the defense and promotion of euthanasia, polygamy, government control of church institutions, gun control, tax-funded abortion, birth limitation, etc. (Policies 263, 133, 402, 47, 261, 323, 271, 91, 85).
 
 This organization should immediately be disbanded and most of the leadership arrested and thrown in jail (at least those that arent already in jail or under indictment for Child Pornography and other offenses)
 
 This organization was founded by a hardened communist, Roger Baldwin
 
 I quote here
 
 The founder of the American Civil Liberties Union was a card-carrying communist whose goal was to undermine the Judeo-Christian foundations of America, according to author David Kupelian.
 
 The ACLU is "engaged in trying to eliminate every vestige of Judeo-Christian expression in public places in America," Kupelian explained in his landmark book, The Marketing of Evil: How Radicals, Elitists, and Pseudo-Experts Sell Us Corruption Disguised as Freedom, according to a review by Agape press. "It's frightening -- and they are using our tax dollars to do this. They use the laws of the land to get American taxpayers to spend their hard-earned money, actually financing their own destruction."
 
 The ultimate goal of the ACLU is to see an America "with little or no public vestige left of religious faith and the traditional family," according to the Alliance Defense Fund's Alan Sears and Craig Osten, who wrote the book, The ACLU vs. America.
 
 The goals of the ACLU were clear from the group's founding, as indicated by the writings of its founder, Roger Baldwin: "I am for socialism, disarmament, and ultimately for abolishing the state itself as an instrument of violence and compulsion. I seek social ownership of property, the abolition of the propertied class… Communism is the goal."
 
 The ACLU "positions itself as the great defender of rights, [but] is against the right of parents not to allow their children to participate in assemblies and curricula that actively undermine and ridicule their religious beliefs," according to Sears and Osten, commenting on the ACLU's successful bid to force public school children in California to attend classes that indoctrinate them with homosexual propaganda.
 
 and of course the LOSER SCUM JIMMY CARTER HONORED HIM
 
 On January 16, 1981, President Jimmy Carter awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom to Roger Nash Baldwin, founder of the American Civil Liberties Union and the International League for Human Rights. While lauded as a champion of human and civil rights both domestically and internationally, Dr. Baldwin left behind as his legacy an institution that is fundamentally un-American and subversive to the principles upon which America was founded.
 
 Baldwin, who visited the Soviet Union in 1927, was greatly intrigued by Communism. So intrigued was Baldwin by the Soviets that in 1928 he released the book Liberty Under the Soviets. To most, anything besides the conclusion that liberty under the Soviets did not exist is counter-intuitive. Baldwin, however, looked to the Soviet Union as a sort of "superprogressive" state. In addition to Baldwin's ties with members of the Communist Party USA, William Z. Foster and Elizabeth Gurley Flynn, two of the first board members of the ACLU, would later become card-carrying Communists.
 
 Despite the ACLU's efforts to paint themselves as the "nation's guardians of liberty," their history points to a group bent on the destruction of freedom, Christianity, and America itself. Tom Krannawitter of the Claremont Institute argues that "a powerful faction within the ACLU has been determined to remake America along ‘progressive,' if not communist lines."
 
 Among the ACLU's repertoire of victories are cases involving the defense of Communists, anarchists, Ku Klux Klansmen, and those who sought to overthrow American government. More recently, the ACLU attacked the city of Redlands, California for displaying a small cross in their city's seal. Unable to face the well-funded and well-staffed ACLU, the debt-ridden city was forced to cower as the pack of ACLU lawyers mounted. Nearby, Los Angeles County was also under attack for a similar display of the city's heritage. Why is it that the ACLU attacks a small cross, nestled below the larger and more visible Greek goddess of vegetation on the Los Angeles seal?
 
 From its inception, the ACLU has worked to create a new America. To do so, the ACLU found it necessary to achieve two main things: first, the abolishment of Constitutional barriers to governmental power and second, the enervation of man's soul to make him weak and dependent on government. Both of which move America towards a progressive state and, according to Dr. Krannawitter, are advanced by "removing God from the American mind."
 
 In order for the ACLU to tear down constitutional barriers to governmental power, they must extinguish America's fundamental belief in God, since such a belief is an essential denial of the supreme power of government. Rights come from God, not government. When God's presence in the American mindset ceases, however, people no longer look to God as the grantor of rights but to government. Thus, the ACLU argues that the more power the government has, the better off the people under it are. If one looks at the history of the Soviet Union and any other Communist country, one will be apt to find Communist leaders who predicated their form of government on atheism and a secular state religion. This sort of anti-religious atmosphere precludes the existence of any rights beyond that which the government has granted.
 
 In addition to the emphasis on the source of rights and governmental power, the ACLU has worked to make people needy and dependent on government. Alexis de Tocqueville warned of those like the ACLU who wished to exacerbate the malignant tendencies of democracy. He explained that the government, if people allow it to do so, will create an incessant dependency of the people on the government as it expands its power under the guise of utility, finally reducing "each nation to being nothing more than a herd of timid and industrious animals of which the government is the shepherd." The ACLU seeks not only to create a people that are dependent and needy, but also a government that "little by little extinguishes their spirits and enervates their souls" by giving them all they want, so that they will be naively content without hopes, dreams, or a will of their own. This is a sort of despotism unlike any other.
 
 Christianity is an antidote to the ACLU's despotism and poison that is dependency on the government. It goes hand-in-hand with limited government and personal responsibility since it instructs individuals to trust in God for provision and it teaches people a strong work ethic.
 
 Ok scared boy - were on!