https://www.debate.org/debates/Is-Drug-Control-Unconstitutional/1/

TITLE: Is Drug Control Unconstitutional?

CATEGORY: Politics

the supreme court decisions are standing until changed. This debate is about drug control today, not drug control in 50 years. The supreme court has the sole power to decide if laws are unconstitutional, and until the supreme court justices change their minds, it is the supreme law of the land. And now a note to the people who will be voting on this debate. As you can see in my opponent's argument, they consider SCOTUS decisions untrustworthy. The job of the Supreme court is to decide if something is constitutional or unconstitutional. If my opponent cannot agree to that, here is a link to the constitution. Its Article 3, just to let you know.
 
  https://www.constituteproject.org... 
 
 As said in section one, "The judicial Power of the United States, shall be vested in one supreme Court," The judges make the choice whether something is constitutional or not, and that will stay the law of the land until it is overturned or this nation is destroyed. The Supreme court has made some bad decisions, a good example being Olmstead v. United States, the court case about privacy, but that stayed supreme law of the land until it was overturned by Katz v. United States, which was then overturned by the PATRIOT act, which was not ruled on by the Supreme court.
 
 Next, you mention article 5. I feel we should look at the drug control section of the US code. I will leave you the link.
 
  https://www.law.cornell.edu... 
 
 The us code is all the small laws the government make. These aren't reversed like court cases. The are the rules of America. It mentions "Any person subject to this chapter who wrongfully uses, possesses, manufactures, distributes, imports into the customs territory of the United States, exports from the United States, or introduces into an installation, vessel, vehicle, or aircraft used by or under the control of the armed forces a substance described in subsection (b) shall be punished as a court-martial may direct" it specifically mentions you can't posses Marijuana! I am very interested in my opponent's reply.