https://www.debate.org/debates/Should-South-Africa-begin-to-invade-the-rest-of-Africa/1/

TITLE: Should South Africa begin to invade the rest of Africa

CATEGORY: Politics

South Africa should invade the rest of Africa because it is the only country in Africa with the military and economic resources to develop the rest of Africa there by spreading peace within these African nations. 
 
 1) The South African military isn't the strongest in Africa. Egypt, Ethiopia, and Libya all have larger power indexes than South Africa. I doubt that South Africa could invade and hold even one country, much less 45 + of them.
  http://www.globalfirepower.com... 
 
 2) South Africa doesn't even have enough money for its people. The average citizen gets 100 claories less than the International Food Standard. Africa doesn't have enough food for its own people, much less a prolonged war. The military and economy would be exhausted in a week. South Africa's military isn't built to sustain offensive operations.
 
 3) South Africa doesn't even have the highest GDP, once again outweighed by Nigeria. The nation still suffers from poverty, rampant crime, and tribal revolts. It is the best of 45 + terrible nations
  http://en.wikipedia.org... (nominal)
  http://africacheck.org... 
 
 
  But only one nation avoids all of this; South Africa 
 
 1) False, for reasons I stated above. South Africa also has terrible corruption problems
  http://www.nytimes.com... 
 
  They are also the only nation to detonate a nuclear weapon 
 
 1) False. Russia, India, Pakistan, North Korea, Israel, United Kingdom, United States, Russia, France, Iran, and China all host and have detonated nuclear weapons.
 
 2) South Africa is the only nation stupid enough to violate the Nuclear Proliferation Treaty
 
  They have never had any form of civil unrest or human rights violations
 
  1) Completely false. Homosexuals and Zulu splinter tribes are often beaten, murdered, and raped by civilians. The problem is our of control and uncontained.
  
   http://www.hrw.org...