https://www.debate.org/debates/Are-republicans-just-stuck-up-christians-with-too-much-money/1/

TITLE: Are republicans just stuck up christians with too much money?

CATEGORY: Politics

George Washington was the nations first president. He helped write our most important documents. And I would appreciate it if everyone watching this debate would refrain from calling me names. It's incredibly immature and I'm not going to tolerate it. Moving on, Abortion is a bad thing I will admit. But at the same time I also believe it needs to be an option for a mother to have. It does not need to be illegal. I guarentee you that if it's made illegal some mothers will perform the abortion themselves. As for gays and lesbians not being able to reproduce. Many same-sex couples do have children. Either from a surrogate mother or in-vitro treatment. THey do reproduce, maybe not in the way that you or I would but they do, and that is all that matters. More humans are born.
 I would never bash a religion completley, but I will give my complete and honest opinion. Republicans at least where I live are mostly hard-core catholics. They let their religion decide their political outlook. I have never met a hard-core catholic who wasnt republican. That's not nessecarily bad but I just wish that people would have more of an open mind. Would you be friends with a gay or lesbian?
 
 As for the war in Iraq. You said that it is nessecary for the downfall of Al-Queda. WHy do we have to take them down. I'm assuming you mean by killing them just because that is what happens in a war.
 
 There is nothing wrong with republicans and there is nothing wrong with christians but I just wish that people wouild take a look at another point of view and step into someone elses shoes for once. I have looked at politics from the republican side and it isnt where I belong. My parents have done a amazing job raising me and teaching me about religion but in the end its my decision.
 
 And you said you believe what your parents taught you. I bet you've never looked at the democrat side. I'm not saying to give up your religion but you could look at a different side of the political spectrum.