https://www.debate.org/debates/Abortion-Is-Morally-Wrong/13/

TITLE: Abortion Is Morally Wrong

CATEGORY: Politics

Well, well, well. Here is the infamous debate back again, with new topics, and new discussions that should be discussed.
 
 Before I begin the argument, I believe a few ground rules should be put in place before I get started. First of all, I'd like to say that I WILL NOT, and let me repeat that, WILL NOT tolerate immaturity, rudeness, impoliteness, or any slandering. I realize that yes, we are in a debate, but we should never lose our civility.
 
 Secondly, I'd like to say that the first round is for an introduction to your side of an argument. This is like a pitch to the readers, and your opponent, on what the argument is about and why you're choosing the side that you are chose.
 
 The 2nd, 3rd and 4th debate rounds are for the arguments. If you can, I request to my opponent that you have clear points and flagpoles. In fact, the last time I debated someone with abortion, found here:  http://www.debate.org...  I continued to get to the opponents end flag, but, he continued to move it farther and farther back. Not only does this hurt your credibility, but it also hurts the debate as a whole.
 
 Finally, the 5th round is a final argument, and then another pitch, now using the evidence that you've brought to the table, to bring the audience to your side one last time. It also is a respectful closing between opponents.
 
 Whew! That was probably a bit too long, so I'm sorry if you fell asleep while reading that. Now, my pitch and first argument can be found below:
 
 --------------------------------------
 
 Hello, opponent. I'm glad you decided to accept. Just read the rules above, and know a bit on the subject, and I'm sure we'll have ...fun... doing this.
 
 My obvious stance on the issue is that abortion is morally wrong, and therefore be illegal and frowned upon. I believe abortion is the murder of human beings, so, again, should be illegal and frowned upon. Here's why.
 
 First of all, let's look at some terms, so me and my opponent understand each other, and are on the same page:
 
 Murder: "the unlawful premeditated killing of one human being by another." -Google
 
 Abortion: "Abortion is the ending of pregnancy by removing an embryo or fetus before it can survive outside the uterus." - https://en.wikipedia.org... 
 
 There we go. So, in theory, all I have to do to destroy the opponent is to prove two things, which I will do now:
 
 1) Abortion is unlawful and premeditated
 2) A fetus, from fertilization to newborn, is a human being
 
 Alright, so #1 is fairly easy to debunk. It's premeditated, obviously, and just because abortion is lawful does not mean its good. Slavery was lawful, and plenty of other hideous things throughout history were lawful. Not even this, but abortion itself is unlawful In some places around the world today!
 
 Now, some of you may be scratching your heads and thinking, "Who the hell would actually defend abortion by saying that it's a law right now!" Well, just one example can be found in the video right beneath this paragraph, found at the time mark 1:15...
 
 It's the killing of a human. The main argument that leftist take is that a fetus is not a human, merely a bundle of cells. Is this true? No. But don"t take my word for it. Take Dianne N. Irving, M.A., Ph.D."s word for it. She states:
 
 i."As pointed out above in the background section, there is a radical difference, scientifically, between parts of a human being that only possess "human life" and a human embryo or human fetus that is an actual "human being." Abortion is the destruction of a human being. Destroying a human sperm or a human oocyte would not constitute abortion, since neither are human beings. The issue is not when does human life begin, but rather when does the life of every human being begin. A human kidney or liver, a human skin cell, a sperm or an oocyte all possess human life, but they are not human beings: they are only parts of a human being. If a single sperm or a single oocyte were implanted into a woman"s uterus, they would not grow; they would simply disintegrate.
 
 Note: This destroys the argument for "If Abortion is murder, then masturbation is murder as well!!!" as well. Hmm. Neat!
 
 ii.As pointed out above in the background section, there is a radical difference, scientifically, between parts of a human being that only possess "human life" and a human embryo or human fetus that is an actual "human being." Abortion is the destruction of a human being. Destroying a human sperm or a human oocyte would not constitute abortion, since neither are human beings. The issue is not when does human life begin, but rather when does the life of every human being begin. A human kidney or liver, a human skin cell, a sperm or an oocyte all possess human life, but they are not human beings: they are only parts of a human being. If a single sperm or a single oocyte were implanted into a woman"s uterus, they would not grow; they would simply disintegrate."
 
 Note- This article was published in 1999. Still, though legal standards on abortion may have changed, to my knowledge, the scientific facts and evidence are not like goo. They stay in concrete. I also suggest you check out the website, as it is very useful:  https://www.princeton.edu... 
 
 There you have the definition if something is a human being. If it can grow in a woman's uterus. And, anything from fertilization to newborn is a human being, and of course, anything after that is one also.
 
 Now, my final point I wish to make is the "A fetus doesn't have most organs until very very late!" Well, my response to you is that the number of organs you have don't constitute whether you are a human being or not.
 
 If that was true, I could walk over to the hospital and kill someone who was brain dead or without life support. A lot of humans are missing many organs, but they still constitute as a human, right? And besides, a fetus is GROWING these organs. It is developing them, and therefore that, by itself, should constitute it as a human.
 
 Overall, I want to say good luck to my opponent, for I hope you'll discuss fairly and learn something. I also request that readers comment on their opinions on either side of the debate.
 
 With that said...
 
 You better respond before 48 hours or up, because then I would have wasted half an hour creating this argument...