https://www.debate.org/debates/religion-is-non-sense-science-is-religion/1/

TITLE: religion is non sense, science is religion

CATEGORY: Science

Pro says: "again i am talking about religion"
 
  Really?  I could've never guessed! 
 
  Pro says: "i dont have beliefs"
 
  Then why are you in this debate if you don't believe in anything!? Do you not even believe in your own point? What?
 
  Pro says:  "can be life is not life, because can be life can also not be life"
 
  If anyone can translate this for me, I would be gracious, because I have no clue what he's trying to prove. 
 
  Pro says: "when i am alone, the true size of the human population is one"
 
  Pro, that's relative to your perspective, you're not accounting for everyone elses perspective in the same period of time as you. The universe doesn't revolve or flow around you. You're not the only variable. 
 
  Pro says: "memories dosnt make sense, reason is non sense"  
 
 Another statement, another invalid arguement. If a memory does not make any sense, then you either had forgotten about it or it is false. I remember playing chess yesterday, as that is what i did....that's not non-sense, that's recolition of a past event. Also....why am I refuting these statements? They have nothing to do with the debate!
 
 
  Pro says: "science is a religion because it relys on confirmation from machines, and i can at best believe what others tell me, unless i dont have to imagine it"  
 
 You don't need machines for science! Machines don't believe in anything! In fact, they only preform a specific task, and that's it! They have no feelings, no emotions, no belief! You need a belief in order to create a relgion, not a process. Science isn't a belief as it is a process! You don't have to imagine it? What does that mean??
 
  Pro said: "do you think your senses are machines?"
 
    My senses are what my brain uses to interpret the surrounding enviorment. My ears are machines, but noise isn't. My tongue is a machine, but taste isn't. My hands are machines, but touching isn't. A computer runs scientific data to make a graph, but science isn't a machine! You can't worship science, you can't pray to it.
 
 
  "Here is the fundamental and irreconcilable conflict between the two: science searches for mechanisms and the answer to "how" the universe functions, with no appeal to higher purpose, without assuming the existence of such purpose. Religion seeks meaning and the answer to "why" the world is as we know it, based on the unquestioned assumption that such meaning and purpose exist. The two worldviews could not more incompatible." ( http://www.huffingtonpost.com... )
 
 