https://www.debate.org/debates/voting-age-should-be-lowere-to-16/1/

TITLE: voting age should be lowere to 16?

CATEGORY: Politics

first of all i would say that you are a very good debator , this is my first debate.
 voting age should be lowered to 16 because.....
 1.They deserve to have a say.
 2.YES, give them the rights they deserve!
 2.It would get younger people interested in politics
 They deserve to have a say.
 If they are now in a responsible stage of their life, they deserve a say on who will decide how their schools will be run through elections!
 
 Yes Because
 
 If a sixteen year old can join the Arm forces, then the right to vote should be allowed.
 
 If the voting age is lowered to 16, then politics could become a GCSE course, meaning they will be fully prepared at an early date, ready for an election if they are 16 for example.
 
 YES, give them the rights they deserve!
 yes, I do understand that sixteen year olds are you and some may be irresponsible but that shouldn't determine why other 16 year olds cant vote, there should be a voting list of which 16 year olds are mature and responsible enough to vote there are plenty of other things they are aloud to do so why jepordise how this country is ran by not letting 16 year olds be able to vote, huh?
 This isn't just affecting you guys because you are old enough to vote. David Cameron has ruined this country and let the people of Britain down if we where aloud to vote then we could of changed that, for the better of Britain and the folks that live here!
 Thank you for reading my viewpoint.
 
 It would get younger people interested in politics
 The numbers of young people's interest is ridiculously low. How should we address this? One way would be to allow younger people the vote, as it would encourage them to investigate further into how it all works. Some may not be interested at all, thats fine. But should we really obstruct the opportunities for those interested in learning more? I think it is important for young people to be interested in politics as will affect them hugely at some point in their lives, therefore we should offer 16s and over the vote.