https://www.debate.org/debates/Necrophilia-should-be-legal/1/

TITLE: Necrophilia should be legal

CATEGORY: Society

I am completely genuine, and I am very grateful for your politeness (to be honest, I was halfway expecting incoherent emotional babble from whoever took up this debate).
 You said  ‘depraved fantasies’ . The definition of depraved is morally corrupt. It seems to me that a good deal of your argument relies heavily on your perception of what is moral and what is not. What would give you the right to hold everyone else to your personal moral standards?
 You proceeded to make the (incorrect) assumption that I would also like to see pedophilia legalized. There are two big differences between necrophilia and pedophilia, when it comes to legal arguments. One, the practice of necrophilia causes harm to no one, while the practice of pedophilia can harm the child involved physically, emotionally and psychologically. Two, in my system, the people whose bodies are to be used in necrophilic acts gave their written consent for such to happen, while a child cannot legally give their consent for someone to have sex with them. As such, their parent would have to sign for this, and no self respecting parent would do that to their child.
 The best solution I could think of (and I thought of several) to avoid there being a higher demand for bodies than supply, is to simply have people return them when they’re done. The bodies would be sent back to the facility, where they would once again be checked for diseases and placed back in storage. In addition, I did not suggest legalizing going to the graveyard and having sex with any corpse one takes a liking to. Someone who did that could (and should) be prosecuted for destruction of someone else's property, theft, rape and public sex. They should not, however, be prosecuted for necrophilia.
  ‘If someone genuinely wanted to have sexual relations with a corpse, then why would they stop there?’  If what you mean by this is ‘why wouldn’t they do something which I deem to be even worse?’, please refer back to my previous statement on moral standards. If what you mean is ‘why would they stop at what’s in the system?’, if they didn’t they’d most likely have broken some other law, and could be prosecuted for that.
 I’m not for entirely unlimited sexual liberation, as I stated above. However, I do think that there should be significantly less laws concerning sexual acts, because, to put it bluntly, it’s really none of the government's business.
 Now it’s time for the fun question:  ‘Why do you actually want to have sex with a corpse?’  Now, I’ve gotten questions similar to this before, usually accompanied by a look of disgust and a suggestion that I immediately see a mental health professional. My normal response is along the lines of ‘Why not?’, seeing as those people have likely already made up their mind about necrophilia and why anyone would practice it, as evidenced by their suggestion, and therefore it would be a complete waste of my time to explain anything to them. Since you asked as someone who actually wants to know, I’ll attempt to give you a satisfactory answer (though I may disclose some details you don’t necessarily want to know, because I’m pretty much open to discussing the topic as far as any genuinely curious person wants to discuss it). The first thing that I would like to say is that I cannot speak for necrophiliacs in general, because there are several different reasons why someone might want to practice necrophilia. I can only speak for myself, and I, personally, want to have sex with a corpse because I am literally sexually attracted to corpses. The reason I’m sexually attracted to corpses is the same reason those who are not necrophiliacs (I tend to call them biophiliacs) are attracted to living men or women. It’s an innate desire, and while it is not helpful for reproduction, neither is homosexuality, another innate desire (and one that is, in fact, legal). In addition, as I am a Class X necrophiliac, I can’t have sex other than with a corpse. I’ve tried with both genders and different ages (above the legal age of consent, before you jump on that), and the results have been the same. I am physically incapable of having sex with the living. I hope that answers your question.