https://www.debate.org/debates/Immigration-Should-Be-Illegal-in-the-United-States/1/

TITLE: Immigration Should Be Illegal in the United States

CATEGORY: Society

You know, my opponent agreed with me more than he disagreed with me.
 
 1.) " Among the U.S. -born, 9.8 percent of all male high-school drop-outs, (Keyword: Male high-school dropouts, not female.) were in jail or prison in 2000." (Keyword: In 2000, not 2001-2009.) " Only 1.3 percent of immigrant men who were high-school drop-outs were incarcerated." Most immigrants work to either buy drugs or help out their family. They can not go to school for that reason. Another possibility is that they drop-out before high-school. My opponent states that " To start, we must define immigration. It can be defined as: -To enter and settle in a country or region to which one is not native." Region has many definitions but I choose the following: a specified district or territory. According to that definition, Asia, North America, South America, Australia, Europe, Antarctica, Africa, Western Hemisphere, Canada, Mississippi, Middle East, etc. are all regions. To enter and settle in a country or region can be to move from Japan to Canada, or it can mean to move from California to Arizona. I am only addressing international immigration, not local immigration though.
 
 2.) " You mention the country can become upset with a lower population, but the countries people immigrate from usually have no jobs, and it means there is one less person in the country the are obliged to look after, as well as the fact most immigrants send money back, and some even go back to their homes when times get better." Most countries people immigrate from don't look after them! I said countries may be upset with a lower population because, a big population can give a country a sense of domination. China is very dominate. Their population is over one billion. If they had a smaller population they would not have so much power. For instance, Iraq's population is 26,074,906. Is Iraq a powerful country? No it is not. I rest my case Round 2. Please vote pro/for.
 
 * In my Round 1 argument I said " September 9, 2001." I meant to say September 11, 2001. Please forgive me for my error.