https://www.debate.org/debates/Gay-marriage-should-be-legal/8/

TITLE: Gay marriage should be legal

CATEGORY: Society

Concerning your request for clarification, I am not saying that the federal government should make it explicitly legal for homosexual couples to marry. That is not what governments generally do. They don't say what is legal, just what is illegal. My argument is that not only should the federal government never amend the Constitution to bar homosexual couples from marrying, but that it is furthermore unconstitutional, unjust, and illogical for states to make gay marriage illegal or otherwise "define" marriage as between individuals of the opposite sex.
 
 I find it hard to understand how you could not see the connection in my syllogism. It is very simple. Men have the right to marry women, and women have the right to marry men. If you agree that men and women should have equal rights, it logically follows that men should have the right to marry men and women to marry women. This simply gives men and women the same rights. You try to say that the right is given to both men and women to marry individuals of the opposite sex. It seems to me that that interpretation is quite full of problems. What about transgender individuals, both pre-op and post-op? How exactly does the government define sex? Is it defined by sex chromosomes, reproductive organs, or what the individual feels his/her sex is?
 
 I realize that the 10th amendment states clearly that powers not specified by the Constitution as reserved for the federal government are for the states. I am not disputing this. States can make laws independently of the federal government. However, they can't make laws that are in violation of the United States Constitution. But by baning gay marriage outright, states have done just that. They are abridging specfic privileges of specific individuals (not couples), based solely on sexual orientation.
 
 Your first contention doesn't actually address my argument. As I said, I am not looking for the federal government to make a law saying that gay marriage is legal. I think that the federal government should just enforce the Constitution and keep states from making it illegal.
 
 I was actually looking for my opponent to make arguments as to why gay marriage to be specifically ILLEGAL.