https://www.debate.org/debates/The-United-States-Federal-Govt.-should-subs.-increase-PublicHealthAssistance-2-Sub-Saharan-Africa/1/

TITLE: The United States Federal Govt. should subs. increase PublicHealthAssistance 2 Sub-Saharan Africa

CATEGORY: Politics

Since this is a policy topic, and I'm going against a policy debater, this will be in a policy debate format. I would ask that you vote on who does the better debating, and read the entire debate before voting. I also cannot fit my entire case on this as it is too long... So I will provide a couple harms, a plan text, and some solvency. But keep in mind this is not the case in its entirety. That being said, lets do this....
 
 I hate debating inherency, if you really feel that it needs to be here, I will provide it. Until then it will not appear.
 
 HARMS-
 
 A. SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA HAS CRITICAL BLOOD SHORTAGES-- Bagozzi '07
 [Daniela; "Blood safety and donation;" WHO Fact Sheet Number 279; June 2007;
  http://www.who.int... ; downloaded 15 July 2007]
 
 While the need for blood is universal, there is a major imbalance between developing and industrialized countries in access to safe blood. Only 45% of the global blood supply is collected in developing countries, which are home to more than 80% of the world's population In sub-Saharan Africa, fewer than 3 million units of blood are collected each year for a population of more than 700 million people Out of 80 countries that have donation rates of less than 1% of the population (fewer than 10 donations per thousand people), 79 are in developing regions; it is generally recommended that 1-3% of the population give blood to meet a country's needs The average number of blood donations per 1,000 population is 11 times higher in high-income countries than in low-income countries.
 
 B. SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA NEEDS AN ESTIMATED 14 MILLION BLOOD UNITS PER YEAR- Report on Blood Safety and HIV/AIDS '04
 ["Report on Blood Safety and HIV/AIDS"; June 2006; House Report 109-152, accompanying H.R. 3057, called upon the Office of the United States Global AIDS Coordinator to report; Submitted by the Office of the U.S. Global AIDS Coordinator U.S. Department of State ; retrieved Oct. 11 2007;  http://www.pepfar.gov... ]
 
 Thirty-nine percent of blood is donated in developing countries where 82% of the world's population lives. An estimated 14 million blood units are needed in sub-Saharan Africa. Information provided to the GDBS by Ministries of Health in 39 countries indicates that only 3.6 million units were collected in 2004. The 15 focus countries of the Emergency Plan have a total population of nearly 40 million people. The annual whole blood collection in these countries in 2004 was approximately 2.8 million units as compared to an estimated requirement of 8.3 million units. Therefore, populations of these countries generally have limited access to blood and blood products.
 
 C. UNSAFE BLOOD TRANSFUSIONS ARE THE #1 CAUSE OF HIV IN SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA – Dhingra '06
 [Neelam Dhingra Coordinator Blood Transfusion Safety Essential Health Technologies at the World Health Organization, June 27, 2006. "Making Safe Blood Available In Africa," Statement before the House International Relations Subcommittee on Africa, Global Human Rights and International Operations, CQ CONGRESSIONAL TESTIMONY, lexis, p. np.]
 
 Unsafe blood transfusions have contributed to the enormous burden of HIV infections in sub- Saharan Africa and still continue to add to this burden. The risk of HIV infection through unsafe blood and blood products is exceptionally high (95-100%) compared to other common routes of HIV exposure: for example, 11-32% for mother-to-child transmission and 0.1%-10% for sexual contact.
 
 PLAN-
 
 The United States federal government will substantially increase it health care to sub-Saharan Africa by adopting the recommendations of the American Association of Blood Banks:
 
 1.) The USFG will expand funding for blood bank developing in the existing PEPFAR target
 nations in sub-Saharan Africa along with expanding the program to include unserved countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. Total funding will amount to an increase of $712 million a year. This accounts for the fact that the African population is close to 800 million at this point and will be increasing 2.6% every year for the next 10 years. Also the fact that the 14 million packets needed in the status quo will increase proportionally with the population. $712 million dollars is the average amount of money needed to provide packets over the course of 10 years.
 
 2.) The USFG will guarantee funding to blood safety programs in Sub-Saharan Africa for 10
 years.
 
 3.) The Affirmative team claims the rights to Fiat, Legislative Intent and Clarification.
 
 SOLVENCY-
 
 A. WITH FACTORS IN MIND THE COST OF A SAFE BLOOD UNIT IS $45 U.S DOLLARS - Report on Blood Safety and HIV/AIDS '04
 ["Report on Blood Safety and HIV/AIDS"; June 2006; House Report 109-152, accompanying H.R. 3057, called upon the Office of the United States Global AIDS Coordinator to report; Submitted by the Office of the U.S. Global AIDS Coordinator U.S. Department of State ; retrieved Oct. 11 2007;  http://www.pepfar.gov... ]
 
 There are recurrent and capital costs associated with each of the following blood transfusion activities. The sum of the cost of each of these activities provides a cost per unit of safe blood. Recruitment: education, motivation, recruitment and retention of voluntary, non-remunerated blood donors Collection: selection and screening of blood donors as well as all activities associated with the actual collection of blood. Processing: screening collected blood for infectious agents, blood grouping, preparation of blood components and all other activities necessary to ensure the safety of blood and blood products before they leave the processing unit for storage. Storage and Distribution: all activities related to the storage and transportation of blood and blood products through to their final transfusion, including the maintenance of an efficient blood cold chain. With these four factors in mind, WHO has concluded that the average cost of a unit of safe blood is $40~45 US dollars. For the purposes of the following calculations, $45 US dollars per unit of blood is used in the model:
 
 B. SOLVING BLOOD SYSTEM PROBLEMS WOULD SAVE 300,000 A YEAR FROM HIV-- Fattah '06
 [Representative Chakah; "Making Safe Blood Available in Africa;" Hearing before the Subcommittee on Africa, Global Human Rights and International Operations, US House of Reps; 27 June 2006;  http://commdocs.house.gov... ; downloaded 15 July 2007]
 
 The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that approximately 120 countries lack proper blood supplies and offer inadequate screening. Out of the total population of HIV/AIDS infected persons, the WHO estimates that up to 10 percent of infections are from corrupted blood supplies and tainted blood transfusions. As I previously noted, these infections are 100 percent preventable. Understand, over 300,000 people in Sub-Saharan Africa alone would be saved from enduring unbearable hardship and pain due to HIV/AIDS each year.