https://www.debate.org/debates/Is-the-earth-on-top-of-a-Giant-Whale/1/

TITLE: Is the earth on top of a Giant Whale?

CATEGORY: Science

"Pro has unfortunately wasted his entire second round on nothing but outlandish assertions, He has not provided any proof to uphold his resolution, and therefore has not fulfilled his BoP."
 
 I have met the burden of proof, God himself says the earth is on top of a Giant whale,
 
 what more proof do we need?
 
 The Quran is the Word of God, if you doubt it, then produce a surah like it, but to this day no one has, proving it is the Word of God ameen,
 
 "Regardless if I actually concede that the images I provided are photo shopped, Pro has still not provided any sufficient evidence that the earth is being held up by a giant whale, All he provides is an ancient text, revealing an insight into how easily persuaded people can hold beliefs without evidence. I could just as easily assume my own personal subjective myth, that it isn't a whale that holds up the earth, it's actually turtles, and it's turtles all the way down. Or I could employ the idea that the Hindus believed, they believed that an elephant is what is holding the world up."
 
 The belief that turtles hold up the universe is not true, since the Quran and Hadith don't mention it,
 
 The hadith says a whale, and then a rock, and then a giant bull with 40,000 horns, and then dust, and only Allah swat knows what is underneath it ameen,
 
 and like wise the Quran or Hadith don't mention an elephant,
 
 and besides the Whale is the biggest and strongest animal,
 
 it is bigger and stronger than a turtle and an elephant,
 
 so only a whale logically could hold up the earth,
 
 Something has to hold up the earth,
 
 Con thinks that the earth is a ball, floating on nothing,
 
 if that were true, it will fall down until it hits something, ameen,
 
 something has to be holding up the earth,
 
 Con will say oh it is gravity,
 
 but what is gravity???
 
 Show me gravity Con, what causes this force???
 
 don't just say it is the force of attraction???
 
 What is causing this force???
 
 Who is responsible for it???
 
 I will tell you
 
 it must be some type of angel or creature that is pulling us downward, ameen
 
 this makes sense and is logical ameen,
 
 and I already proved whale is bigger and stronger than elephant or turtle,
 
 so Con's theories are wrong,
 
 and besides hinduism is wrong, because hinduism teaches everyone is God,
 
 If I am God AstughfirAllah nowzobilllah, then where are my powers???
 
 Why can't I create something from nothing???
 
 See hinduism is wrong,
 
 but Islam is right,
 
 because it is the only religion that teaches One God ameen,
 
 there has to be One God if, there were more there would be chaos ameen,
 
 "The difference between my argument and Pro's is, that I do not have to prove my argument, all I have to do is present an alternative and poke holes in Pros case. Unless of course he can prove it, but thus far Pro has offered nothing but a baseless claim, which has no scientific backing, just the same as my own mythological assertions. Therefore all arguments can be rejected on the basis of lack of evidence."
 
 I have provided pleanty of evidence,
 
 The Quran and Hadith are solid evidence ameen,
 
 prove to me Quran and Hadith are not valid sources ameen,
 
 and produce a Surah for me like the Quran in Arabic ameen
 
 "Pro also argues that NASA is misleading the entire population, in the hope we believe that the earth is actually held up by a giant whale. Again, he provides no logical or rational explanation to accept his outlandish accusation, therefore his arguments fails on the basis of lack of evidence."
 
 NASA was funded by Nazis
 
  http://www.sott.net... 
 
  http://www.writing.upenn.edu... 
 
 It is called Operation Paperclip Con, please read about it ameen,
 
 "Conclusion
 
 Pro has not upheld the resolution and has not offered anything apart from an ancient mythological text to verify that the earth is being held up by a giant whale. Therefore Pro has failed to meet his BoP."
 
 No Con is lying,
 
 the Quran is not myth,
 
 produce a chapter like it if you think it is,
 
 And Muhammad saw was the most honest man to ever walk the earth,
 
 He never lied once ameen,
 
 so he must be telling the truth
 
 and the Hadith are his sayings ameen,
 
 So Quran and Hadith are valid ameen,
 
 So the real conclusion is that I am right Alhumdulillah ameen
 
 the Earth is on top of a Giant Whale Alhumdulillah ameen