https://www.debate.org/debates/Is-the-LGBTQ-community-wrong/1/

TITLE: Is the LGBTQ community wrong?

CATEGORY: Politics

I want to start off by saying, we look at America to give the good for the greatest amount of people. That implies making sure you can give the best to the most amount of people. The LGBTQ community is disliked for mainly two reasons. Because of religion, and because of discomfort with the idea.
 To talk about religion, nobody says you have to follow everything your religion says to stand by it in a perfect way. Yes, the bible says things like "Marriage should be between a women and a man.", but it also says to love all. So even if you may not like the idea of same sex marriage or the LGBTQ community, don't bring them down because of how you feel. You don't have to completely support them, just let them make their own choices without disruption.
 The idea of the LGBTQ community has brought numerous people to an uncomfortable state. Some people say it's unnatural. What is so unnatural about feelings? This is how someone's emotions stand. If feelings are natural then surely this is. You can't be forced or told to be gay, bi, trans, or so many more. Classes to change someone's sexuality has surely failed all included. Many have come out to their parents and their parents can express dissatisfaction. Even if their child knew they would be unhappy. Some people try to change themselves because of their unhappy families but it has never worked. Love is love. People have to understand that treating someone like their human and they have all the rights that others do, is the greatest freedom you can give a human being. USA, Land of the free, remember? This is like racism. People weren't allowed the same rights because of who they are. Is that not unfair? Imagine being denied the rights of others all because of who you are. Something that can barely be controlled. And most people don't agree with this because they've never been exposed to it. You really have to understand from a certain point of view before you can judge. As most people know, former President Obama was against same sex marriage and the whole thing until he was exposed to it by society. The people around him taught him that it's okay and people should have the same rights. If you can convince the PRESIDENT of that, surely you can speak out about this problem to many more people so they can understand.