https://www.debate.org/debates/Japan-is-becoming-a-threat-to-the-peace-in-East-Asia/1/

TITLE: Japan is becoming a threat to the peace in East Asia

CATEGORY: Politics

"Also can you please research more on the Mass Killing of Nanking." 
 
 I am very familiar with the Rape of Nanking and the atrocities that took place. I am also familiar with Japan's other malicious actions in Manchuria, Korea, and in Southeast Asia. But Prime Minister Abe is not responsible for the actions taken before he was born. Maybe a symbolic apology may be necessary from the government of Japan. But to assert Prime Minister Abe is personally responsible for Nanking and should apologize is a severe error. Perhaps he should clarify why he went to the shrine and explain he didn't have malicious intent.
 
  "Japan is making another army similar to the US's Navy SEALS just recently." 
 
 Japan is developing their military out of reaction to Chinese aggression. The Chinese have steadily become more aggressive in terms of flexing their influence. For example, a few months ago when a newspaper editor in Taiwan was asked to tone down the rhetoric in his paper because it offended the mainland Chinese government. 
 
  "If you listen to the news, the US is disappointed in Prime Minister Abe's visit to the shrine too plus some other countries I forgot.I recommend you listen to Chinese and Korean viewpoints too on the topic." 
 
 I read one Chinese newspaper a day aside from the other four papers I read I'm very familiar with the response by State Councilor Yang Jiechi denouncing Prime minister Abe(1). I don't read the Japanese news so I wouldn't know their view at all on the subject.
 (1) http://english.peopledaily.com.cn... 
 
  "By the way, Japan is also falsly claiming islands that belong to the Chinese and Koreans like China's Diaoyu Island!!! 
 
  Would you want a World War happen all over again?" 
 Japan is not becoming a threat to peace. China is the threat to peace because they have started these border disputes with several of their neighbors aside from Japan. China is still disputing territory with Russia and India which had to deaths(2). Japan has had only border disputes with China. Japan has yet to engage in violence as China has utilized in their border disputes. China has a history of aggression in the last fifty years, not Japan. 
 (2) http://en.wikipedia.org... 
 (3) http://en.wikipedia.org...