https://www.debate.org/debates/Age-discrimination-be-made-illegal-in-the-workplace/1/

TITLE: Age discrimination be made illegal in the workplace

CATEGORY: Society


  I would first of all like to thank my opponent for this debate and suggest to him that he uses a word processor to help him with his spelling and grammatical errors. 
    
    Rebuttals:   
   Qualification and Law:  
  I am very curious to know what sources you are siting for this information. 
   “The elderly can perform just as well if not better than younger applicants. Age should not be seen or used as an indication for inferior performance expecially ( especially ) since they are more experienced than the younger workers/applicants.”  
  Is an invalid point if the younger applicants have more experience. Just because someone is elderly, or older, does not mean they have an abundance of experience. The same can be said about younger workers, not all young workers lack experience. 
   “Age discrimination should be seen as an unjust and unreasonable act as it could be linked to race discrimination or even religious discrimination.”   
  There have been no studies linking age discrimination to racial or religious discrimination, or at least I cannot find one. 
   Economy:  
   “Age discrimination reduces the productivity of a company because certain jobs are given to younger workers who might not have any experience what so ever.”  
  The reasoning behind this is simple, hire young workers whom you can train, who are already not set in their ways. A younger worker is more likely to stay with a job for five or more years than an older worker who is up for retirement soon. In that regard the company is making the smart decision by hiring someone whom is going to be with them for the long run and therefore making the better investment. The investment may reduce productivity for a small amount of time, during training. However it will increase productivity in the long run because the younger worker will be with you for more than five years where as the older worker is more likely to retire causing you to have to hire someone knew reducing productivity once again during the training process. 
    “No one is going to believe that they will get five years out of an older worker,” says Bruce Hurwitz, an executive recruiter and career counselor with Hurwitz Strategic Staffing. “It is assumed that the next job for an older worker will probably be their last job before retirement. A younger worker can talk about how he or she wants to make an impact and grow. In this way, the employer knows that they will get the biggest possible return on their investment of time and money in training the new employee.” [1] 
  That is your own source by the way… 
    My Argument:    
  Age discrimination in the work place should not be illegal. 
    
   Older Folks:  
  Because you stated a limit in the comments section before my arguments I will respect it, you put a limit on the age wokers/applicants to 70. Therefor my definition of “Older Folks” will be between 50 years old to 70 years old. 
  “  work·place 
   [  wurk  -  pleys  ]  
    noun    
   1.   a   person's  place   of   employment.  
   2.  any or all places  where people are  employed:   a bill to set safety standards for the workplace.”[2]  
      
   Workplace is defined as a person’s place of employment, now unfortunately we have a lot of jobs that require you to perform certain tasks. These jobs sometimes, if not all the time, are unable to be performed by an older person due to its physical demands. These jobs include, Soldier, Logger, Construction Worker, Oil Rig Worker, Police Officer, Firefighter, Freight Handling.[3] The list can go on for days. Any physically demanding job an old person should not be hired for unless they are physically capable. Unfortunately this is rarely the case.   
      
    Kids:   
  You stated the age cap of 70 but you stated no minimum age, in this section we will assume that all workers/applicants are between the ages of 1-17. 
    
  Now it’s very easy to say that none of these applicants should be hired as a soldier, police officer, logger, delivery driver, stenographer, security officer, chief of staff, human resources, or really anything for that matter that’s just common knowledge and sense.[4] 
    
   Conclusion:  
  Older workers are unable to perform some jobs due to physical limitations, and younger workers are unable to perform MOST job functions due to mental and physical limitations. Thus there needs to be age discrimination in the workplace. 
      
   Sources:  
  [1]  http://www.glassdoor.com...  
  [2]  http://dictionary.reference.com...  
  [3]  http://wiki.answers.com...  
  [4] Common sense. 
 