https://www.debate.org/debates/Is-the-Book-of-Exodus-fictional/1/

TITLE: Is the Book of Exodus fictional?

CATEGORY: Science


  Round One's about the enslavement of the Israelites by the  Oppressor Pharaoh , the origin of  Moses , and the freeing of the Israelites from the  Exodus Pharaoh . 
   A. Historicity  
  No pair of Egyptian kings meet every constraint Exodus imposes-- 
  Exodus 1:11: They built Pithom and Rameses as store cities for Pharaoh 
   1. Rameses was a great capital not a "store city"  
  "Rameses also announced that this was to be the site of a new city that he was going to build as the new capital of Egypt." [1] Rameses was much more than a store city. 
   2. Rameses and Pithom built by different kings  
  Rameses was built by Rameses II (1279-1213 BCE). "Rameses II was also the king who.. made it his great Delta residence called Piramesse ('house of Rameses'), the Rameses of biblical tradition." [2] Pithom's construction wasn't listed among his accomplishments. Pithom's first mention is much later in a statue for Osorkon II (874-850 BCE). [3] 
   3. Rameses II or later can't be the Oppressor Pharaoh  
  If Rameses II were the Oppressor Pharaoh, we run into a contradiction. His successor Merenptah would be the earliest possible Exodus Pharaoh, but Merenptah recorded his first encounter with the Israelites. They weren't in bondage and were already in Canaan-- 
  "The 'victory stele' that records these victories also contains the first reference in Egyptian sources to Israel, albeit not as a country or city, but as a Tribe,"[2] 
   4. Rameses I or Seti I can't be the Oppressor Pharaoh  
  The two kings preceding Rameses II couldn't have been the the Oppressor Pharaoh-- 
  First, those kings didn't claim credit for building Rameses. 
  Second, neither Rameses I (1295-1290 BCE) nor Seti I (1290-1279 BCE) ruled long enough to perform all of the Oppressor Pharaoh's actions-- 
  And they built for Pharaoh supply cities, Pithom and Rameses. 
  [T]he more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied 
  Then the king.. spoke to the Hebrew midwives.. "if it  is  a son, then you shall kill him;" 
  God dealt well with the midwives, and the people multiplied and grew very mighty 
  "Every son who is born you shall cast into the river" 
  she became pregnant.. She named him Moses.. after Moses had grown up 
  Third, this would make Rameses II the Exodus Pharaoh, and "Egyptian records make no mention of the oppression of the Hebrews, the plagues, the Exodus, the pillar of fire, or the Pharaoh's army drowned in the Red Sea. Here instead is a portrait of a dynamic leader.."[1] 
   5. Pharaohs before Rameses I can't be the Oppressor Pharaoh  
  Kings immediately preceding Rameses I run into the problems in argument four, but also had little interest in building at the site of Rameses. That interest of Rameses I and his successors is explained by their nearby upbringing. [2] 
  Kings that came long before Rameses II would be far-fetched, given that Egyptian records and archaeological evidence agree that Rameses II founded Rameses. 
   B. Believability  
  A rational person believes what's probable based on experience. [4] Consider-- 
   6. Humans can't turn staffs into snakes without preparation  
  In Exodus 7:11, all the sorcerers and wise men Pharaoh calls upon turn staves into snakes without preparation. First, the existence of sorcerers with magical powers is improbable. Second, even the wise people of today would need time to prepare such an illusion. 
   7. Earth is not ruled by evil god(s)  
  The Exodus God overrides Pharaoh's will ten times, so he'd keep the Israelites and be punished for it.  "Go to Pharaoh, for I have hardened his heart and the hearts of his officials so that I may perform these signs of mine among them" (Exodus 10:1)  
  The ten plagues weren't restricted to Egyptians leaders, but also inflicted upon animals (Exodus:9:10, 9:16), non-Israelite slaves (Exodus 9:21), and innocent children (Exodus 12:29). He blistered their skin, destroyed their food, and murdered them. 
   Sources  
  [1] Rameses II: Pharaoh of the New Kingdom, pgs 9, 38 
  [2] Oxford History of Ancient Egypt, pgs 292-294, 300 
  [3] The Store City of Pithom and the route of the Exodus, pg 4 
  [4]  "Truth and Probability", 1931  
 