https://www.debate.org/debates/Is-world-government-a-good-idea/1/

TITLE: Is world government a good idea?

CATEGORY: Politics

To many, the idea of a one-world government sounds appealing. The idea of a unified body consisting of all the nations of Earth, which would somehow make everybody get along, lends a great deal of optimism to many, especially those on the political left who see such a idea as the easiest pathway to worldwide socialism/communism. It also creates an appealing premise for futuristic sci-fi flicks like  Star Trek . However, there is no evidence anywhere such a body could be created, there is no proof such a body would be uniformly democratic and immune to tyranny, there is no evidence such a body would end international disputes or wars, and there is no evidence such a body could treat all nations equally. In this debate, I will not be assuming such a body can or would exist. I will be arguing on the sheer merits of the idea, and proving that such a body could not be a viable solution to the problems of our time.
 
 To begin, I want to note that there is no way a unitary body of world government could have a representative, democratic government that both avoids giving undue control to the largest countries while avoiding giving undue control to the smallest countries. The largest sovereign country in the world, China, has a population of 1.35 billion people, or about 19.07% of the world's population. The world's smallest sovereign country (excluding Vatican City), Nauru, has a population of 9,945 people.[1] Let's assume the parliament/Congress of this world government would be apportioned by population; to ensure each sovereign state gets a vote, let's say for every 9,000 people, a state gets 1 representative. China would be assigned  150,449  representatives, while Nauru would get  1  representative. Obviously, that is unfair - Nauru's representation in such a parliament/Congress would be meaningless, while China would not be able to organize their caucus effectively. If we change this to 'one-state, one-vote', we would have the exact opposite - China's 1.35 billion people would be denied fair representation, and small countries like Nauru would be just as powerful even though they contribute far less to the world. In fact, the top ten countries in the world by population, composing a collective 57.66% of the world's population, would have only  5% of the vote , while the other 186 countries, despite having only 42.34% of the world's population, would have  95% of the representatives . Simply put, that is  not  fair or democratic, and their is no real solution to this problem - you either overrepresent the people, at the expense of the states, or you overrepresent the states, at the expense of the people.
 
 Similarly, presidential elections would face a similar problem. There are nearly 7.1 billion people in the world.[2] Even assuming only 35% of the people vote, that is still almost 2.5 billion votes to count. Let's say that the presidential race involves only two candidates - canidate A and candidate B. Using math, I will calculate what the margin of victory would be if Candidate A wins by 1% of the vote out of 2.5 billion votes:
 Candidate A - 51% of the vote would be 1.275 billion votes
 Candidate B - 49% of the vote would be 1.225 billion votes
 
 1% is a very small margin of victory, but would still be separated by  50 million votes . Under such a situation, a recount would be timely, expensive, and very impossible. Parliamentary elections under proportional representation would face a similar issue. As with representation, there is no clear solution to this problem.
 
 With it now established that creating a democratic world government that still respects state sovereignty would be practically impossible, I also want to note that such a government can and would be seceptible to dictatorships. The Third Wave, a social experiment conducted by teacher Ron Jones in a high school class, demonstrates that even democracies are not immune to the appeals of authoritarian ideologies like fascism.[3] There is no reason to believe that massive global turmoil could not lead to a dictator taking control.
 
 With that out of the way, I have disproven the idea world government could be fairly representative of both states and people, as well as the idea that such a government could be immune to dictatorship. I will respond to my opponent's main points in the next round.
 
 References:
 1.  http://en.wikipedia.org... (United_Nations)
 2.  http://en.wikipedia.org... 
 3.  http://en.wikipedia.org...