https://www.debate.org/debates/Should-all-18-year-olds-be-drafted-into-the-military/1/

TITLE: Should all 18 year olds be drafted into the military?

CATEGORY: Society

The purpose of this debate is over the effects of conscription on modern warfare, therefore we must accept historical precedent regarding conscription as conscription has been unused due to the increased effectiveness of the all-volunteer force. Next, my opponent argues that there are more enemies of the state. this is true. which is why I want a professional, all-volunteer force fighting terrorism rather than ineffective unwilling warriors. furthermore, as for his point on homeland security and homegrown terrorists, the Posse Comitatus Act prohibits the federal government from using the military to enforce laws on U.S. soil. Next, there is no evidence that A. the military as it is now couldn't handle Russia or China, or North Korea or B. that war with India is in any way impending. Our military is more powerful as it is now.
 
 Next, for his points on character, he talks about the "honor of defending the homeland" however, honor can't be compulsory, honor must be gained by choice or it isn't truly honor. He also talks on employment for youth, however, as I stated in my case- empirics prove that conscription damages employment by delaying introduction to the labor market and reducing educational opportunity. Humanitarian pursuits such as the ones my opponent brings up are better performed by institutions other than the military, the Red Cross, the Peace Corps, etc
 
 My opponent opens his next contention with a generalization with no factual substantiation. Furthermore, integrating that form of laziness into the military will reduce retention and military readiness and as a result, the quality of the military. Next, millennials aren't eighteen anymore we're well past that according to the pew research center. Moreover, in regard to his point on everything being looked up, one this does not replace practical experience, the alternative would be to utilize archaic methodology which would harm efficiency. to continue, Empirics prove as well as historical precedents prove that conscription actually harms future business and professional studies.
 
 Next, he brings up cultural impacts in Israel. However, Israel is a small country on constant high alert. their entire culture revolves around not getting killed by the Arabs who want to wipe them off the face of the Earth. The situation of the United States is in no way comparable to the situation of Israel.
 
 Another even larger generalization with no basis in fact. the rest of this is an ad hoc argument with some ad hominems sprinkled in. there are no real arguments here. there is no evidence that the majority of young people aren't interested in starting families and entering the job markets and buying homes.