https://www.debate.org/debates/Was-feminism-ever-anything-more-than-gynocentric-nepotism/1/

TITLE: Was feminism ever anything more than gynocentric nepotism?

CATEGORY: Politics

Thank you for accepting this debate. Naturally I will give sources for women and men both being able to vote before feminism [1] and men and women being equal in societal value, but different in purpose [2]. What I find puzzling is that you use the site that you use as your source, when the site itself offers little to no sources on certain paragraphs (for example the one you just quoted). I am willing to suspend my disbelief of the source material, but I want you to know that you are the one who set the standard to this level.
 
 Next points I want to bring up: I said women were allowed to vote and this debate is not only about the USA. There are many places (like Finland) that had women voting before feminism so that should not be falsely attributed to the movement. Many other states already had females voting [1] by the time the rest of the states were considering it, so it may be possible that feminists had little to no impact on the matter. This is just a hypothetical, but it is good to keep in mind.
 
 Men and women were equal in the past (before agriculture, at least) [2]. I have an interesting thing to point out about the article, though: they keep talking about gender equality, but never quite define it. I will do the legwork for you with quotes. There are just three important quotes in the article for my purposes:
 1. "Mark Dyble, an anthropologist who led the study at University College London, said: 'There is still this wider perception that hunter-gatherers are more macho or male-dominated. We"d argue it was only with the emergence of agriculture, when people could start to accumulate resources, that inequality emerged.'"
 2. "The study suggests that it was only with the dawn of agriculture, when people were able to accumulate resources for the first time, that an imbalance emerged. 'Men can start to have several wives and they can have more children than women," said Dyble. 'It pays more for men to start accumulating resources and becomes favourable to form alliances with male kin.'"
 3. "The findings appear to be supported by qualitative observations of the hunter-gatherer groups in the study. In the Philippines population, women are involved in hunting and honey collecting and while there is still a division of labour, overall men and women contribute a similar number of calories to the camp. In both groups, monogamy is the norm and men are active in childcare."
 From these three quotes we can see that men and women were equal before agriculture, which shows us that people are innately egalitarian creatures. From there we can see that the "inequality" being highlighted here is the simple division of labour where men and women do different things. This is not a problem in my opinion, it is just pragmatic that people do what they are expedient at. The third and final point is that this doesn't count as oppression and is not unjust, therefor feminism wasn't needed. You can point at any point in history, and I will show you how men and women were equally disadvantaged or how women were actually treated well. People don't just senselessly oppress their own tribe members. I invite you to find a time period for me to examine.
 
 "In other words, 2 years after ALL MEN were recognized as being allowed to vote, women were still being arrested for trying to vote."
 Not in all states as I have previously stated and that my evidence supports.
 
 "'Under the common law legal doctrine known as coverture, a married woman in Great Britain's North American colonies and later in the United States had hardly any legal existence apart from her husband. Her rights and obligations were subsumed under his. She could not own property, enter into contracts, or earn a salary.'"
 
 Just before I show you an explanation for this, I would like to remind you about the title of this debate. This is not about whether or not men and women were equal (although that has a lot to do with it), but rather it's about showing that women were oppressed and feminists solved the oppression of women. You have not shown this. You have given examples of alleged oppression and failed to provide how they fit in with the topic of this debate. Even if I granted you this point (which I am not), you would still have to make an argument for how feminism solved this. Just because things were solved after feminism doesn't mean feminism had any part in the thing and that is called the "post hoc ergo propter hoc" -fallacy.
 
 Now let's tackle this argument: On a technical level what you said is true. If people wanted, this discrepancy could be abused to make women suffer. It is funny how women are seen at the same time as belonging at home and spending more money than men do. That is why in marketing things are tailored towards women: because while the institutional laws may dictate that women can not own property, the husbands and fathers of these women provided for them. They were socially obligated to do so. Here's a two paragraph long quote:
 
 "Coverture was based on the assumption that a family functioned best if the male head of a household controlled all of its assets. As a result, a married woman could not own property independently of her husband unless they had signed a special contract called a marriage settlement. Such contracts were rare and even illegal in some parts of the country. In the absence of a separate estate, all personalty a woman brought to her marriage or earned during marriage, including wages, became her husband"s. He could manage it or give it away, as he chose, without consulting her.
 
 This sounds bad, and it was. But one rule worked to mitigate some of the worst effects of coverture. A married woman had the right to be maintained in a manner commensurate with her husband"s social status. If he refused to provide for her appropriately, she could sue and win support from the courts. While waiting for the court"s judgment, she was permitted to run up charges at local stores and taverns"and her husband had to pay for them. Judges consistently applied this rule, called the doctrine of necessities, in order to prevent men from neglecting their wives." [3]
 People were being idiots, but not because of misogyny, but rather because that was the best system they had. Women were not forced to work (which is seen as a desirable thing for example in World War one, when they had a reduced military troop size, because they let men work the factories and fight, so that the women didn't have to) and were provided for by their husband or father who did go to work. This would be the ideal division of labour. Of course ideal situations are rare so this system was easy to abuse and now we have moved to a safer system they didn't have back then.
 
 "I have not yet gotten into 3rd world countries where there isn't a women's rights movement and women suffer horrible abuses, so let me give you one more example of what happens when there is not a women's rights movement."
 Feminism is not the women's rights movement, they are called different things because they are different. Feminism was supposed to be about equality according to your side, or am I mistaken?
 
 The thing you linked and quoted for me is not what happens without women's rights as much as it is what happens when religion controls the so-called "justice" system. Also since when has it ever been acceptable to use Fox News as your source? Ignoring that let's look at what feminism is doing at this, as it is the focal point of this debate: there is the rape gang cover-up in major cities by the media. Some immigrants influenced by their culture and religion raped and groped women all around Europe, I am sure you have heard about this. Feminist standpoint theory and intersectionality are directly against prosecuting these people so nothing is happening. Anyone who does so is labeled a racist or an islamophobe.
 
 I am not arguing against a women's rights movement, since I am a women's rights advocate, I am arguing against feminism. They are not synonyms. Let's go over men being in some bad situations next, to see that it's not just oppression, it's people doing badly. Iran was a warzone not too far back in history, so I think people there would have a lot bigger things to worry about. No, only the men, actually. As Iran is an Islamic theocracy, men fought in the war and died by the thousands. You are focusing on the "real" tragedy that is a few women getting raped and then killed? I agree, it's horrible, but you have to have perspective.
 
 If you like talking about equality, why is it so that men have to be ready to fight in a war and women are not in order to vote? Why are men responsible for a baby that was conceived from stolen sperm or from a rape when women are not? Why is it that the only slavery in modern western countries affects only men (as with the case above)?
 Maybe feminism is really the women's rights movement. It seemingly never wanted equality in the first place if we go by these examples. There are many more like positive discrimination and unjust courts that feminists do not care about since they are disadvantaging men and not women. Gynocentric nepotism, as I have been saying.
 
 [1] a)  http://knowledgenuts.com... 
 b)  http://www.bbc.co.uk... 
 [2]  https://www.theguardian.com... 
 [3]  https://www.gilderlehrman.org...