https://www.debate.org/debates/The-Republican-House-of-Representatives-Is-More-Responsible-For-The-Lack-of-Doing-in-Washington/1/

TITLE: The Republican House of Representatives Is More Responsible For The Lack of "Doing" in Washington

CATEGORY: Politics

First off, I am not claiming the Democrat senate is a well oiled law/compromise making machine, simply that the House is worse at its job.
 
   Failure To Legislate
 
    The 111th Congress (2008-2010) passed 303 laws in its two years. But, when the Republicans gained control of the House for the 112th Congress, the number of laws passed fell to a mere 61. This was caused, mainly, by the House refusing to pass anything supported by Obama to win small, unimportant victories. The primary job of Congress, according to the Constitution, is to make laws. In that respect, the House is failing at its job.
 
   Wasting Time on ObamaCare   
 
  The Republican House knows it has no chance to repeal ObamaCare, as the President would veto any bill that make it to his desk. Still, they have voted to repeal ObamaCare 40 times. This is something they know will not go anywhere. Yet they still waste the time and energy of themselves and their peers. This time and energy could be used on reaching more bi-partisan agreements, passing more laws, or making internal party decisions. 
 
   The Abuse of Filibusters
   
  The Republicans have used the filibuster to expire laws they don't like without using a vote. They give speechs until Congress can no longer vote on the bill because they aren't in session. This defeats the purpose of a legislative body that votes on laws, because the minority can delay the vote till the bill expires. 
 
  In the 112th Congress, Republicans have used the filibuster a record of 61 times. Basically, any bill Republicans don't want to get to Obama's desk, they can stop by wasting more time and energy.
 
 
 Sources:
  http://tpmdc.talkingpointsmemo.com... 
  http://usatoday30.usatoday.com... 
  http://www.archives.gov... 
  http://www.cnn.com... ;