https://www.debate.org/debates/Closing-Sweatshops-will-do-More-Harm-Than-Good/1/

TITLE: Closing Sweatshops will do More Harm Than Good

CATEGORY: Society

Nobel Prize winning economist, Paul Krugman, once said "why does the image of an Indonesian sewing sneakers for 60 cents an hour evoke so much more feeling than the image of another Indonesian earning the equivalent of 30 cents an hour trying to feed his family on a tiny plot of land". (1) What Krugman is saying here is that without sweatshops people in countries with low average incomes, such as Indonesia as Krugman stated, would be worse off. For example, in Bangladesh 77% of Bangladeshis earn less than $2.00 a day, yet sweatshops average more than $2.00 a day there. (2) This is the same in other countries with sweatshops. In fact, an article by the New York Times revealed how many people in Cambodia would rather work in sweatshops than in rural jobs. (3) If sweatshops were to be closed people would have to be working worse jobs, or else they wouldn't be working there in the first place. This is one of the main reasons that people in first world countries don't work in sweatshops, there are better alternatives.
 
 Of course, today's first world countries haven't always been free of sweatshops. For example, after the Korean War South Korea was left in ruins. (4) As a result, South Korea began using a lot of sweatshop and now South Korea has a strong economy, international companies such as Hyundai and Samsung, and is often noted for having one of the best education systems in the world. However, if South Korea (along with every first world country whether it's the US back in the 1800s or Singapore in the 1960s) never had sweatshops it wouldn't have reached where it is today. The reason for this, is when wealthy people (nowadays, usually foreigners) invest in sweatshops, capital and new technologies are brought in. (5) This can lead to more people becoming wealthy and educated, so soon better jobs and wages takeover and the people are more successful.
 
 1- http://www.slate.com... 
 2- http://www.forbes.com... 
 3- http://www.nytimes.com... 
 4- http://mainecampus.com... 
 5- http://www.independent.org...