https://www.debate.org/debates/Border-Fence/14/

TITLE: Border Fence

CATEGORY: Politics

I thank Kylar for accepting this. Let us see if we can change each others viewpoints on the border fence or just have a good debate.
 Now lets begin!
 Do you really think a fence will stop people from coming to America from Mexico?
 I can think of 5 ways to get around 10 foot fence which is what many think is how tall it should be.
 1. Give a person/people a leg up for him/her to get to the top to pull you up.
 2. Get a boat to secretly enter Texas by reaching the closest port to Mexico.
 3. Use a ladder or rope.
 4. Knock part of it down.
 5. Make a tunnel under it.
 I could say more, but those are right of the bat.
 A fence isn't going to stop people from going to America. In fact it will likely only slow them down by a few minutes. Plus do you realize the cost to build a 700 mile fence that will barely slow anyone down? A huge waste of taxpayers money! This is going to be the son of the Berlin Wall! Less effective and people from one side will take risks attempting to reach the other side. A fence should not be put up because it simply won't work. Plus this won't be good in other reasons. What if a company(s) wants to sell some of its merchandise in Mexico because in Mexico there is high demand, but low supply and by land would seem cheapest assuming they don't take the fence into account? Well this is a fence and I doubt there will be very many if there are any gates to pass through. So the company(s) may end up spending more money causing them to have to raise prices to already poor Mexicans. It doesn't get much better after that.
 For those pro environmental protection listen to this, IT HARMS THE ENVIRONMENT!
 
 Most animals can't easily cross a 10 foot fence unless they can fly. The fence would basically cut up habitats which is not good for endangered species. Also If it goes through rivers, mainly the Rio Grande that basically makes a dam which means part of that river is blocked also not good for animals or water suplies. So unless you want a few endangered species to die, cause a reduction in water supplies, and to change the name of the Rio Grande to the Rio Pequeno, a border fence won't be good.
 Now onto my solution. Have guards patrol with vehicles the border let's say around 2,000-3,000 meaning less than to 1 guard per 1/4-1/3 mile. Your solution could only work factoring in the guards and would merely just cost more and be bad for the environment
  http://www.csmonitor.com... 
 Your turn, if you dare!