https://www.debate.org/debates/Potassium-is-an-element-of-the-periodic-table/1/

TITLE: Potassium is an element of the periodic table

CATEGORY: Science

Hi, would just like to say I felt like arguing a very one sided point such as this to see if I had a chance..
 
 Next I would like to clarify that I meant the periodic table is not finished I would of presumed you would of caught on by the latter part of that point but I take the hit for not going over my argument.
 
 We now need to enter the realms of scepticism and history, if you might recall there was once a time when we believed the world was composed of 4 elements and when we thought the earth was square, we would of been ridiculed if we thought otherwise and quite wrongly so as we can clearly see hence we must realise that we can't always accept things and must always test things and this is what some scientists do, there are albeit a couple of axioms but nevertheless we must always treat things with the possibility of it not existing otherwise you rely on other people to much.
 
 Just to point out the periodic table that exists now is very much different to the one devised by Mendeleev thanks to scientists such as Marie curie.
 
 Now I would like to clarify elements existed before Mendeleev he only invented the periodic table for I guess public convinence there were others before him who hinted at the fact of a periodic table but anyways regardless of whether he decided potassium was an element and regardless of whether it is taught at schools can you be 100 percent certain and I am not sure you can be. I'm sure you can understand the standard periodic table is liable to change like so many other things it is not absolute/a statement of nature even if elements are, if that makes any sense.
 
 Btw your analogy of Cinderella is very good and I might of jumped a bit to far ahead from thought process to computer but I will explain. If Cinderella is in a Cinderella book but not in THE Cinderella book then she is not a character in the book. Similar to how you can get bootleg Pokemon games with weird characters but they aren't actually in THE Pokemon franchise.
 
 This concludes my argument and THE argument!