https://www.debate.org/debates/Reaganomics-worked/1/

TITLE: Reaganomics worked

CATEGORY: Economics

Well let's talk about Keynesian Economics. Keynes suggested that when an Economy crashed, it was the Government's job to get the market going again. Where as F.A. Hayek said that the government should allow the forces of Free-will and a Free-Market capitalist system sort out the problem. Keynesian Economics was proven wrong during the Great Depression and the 2008 Recession. The New Deal spent massive amount of money to make jobs. Nothing happened.In fact, some may argue it got worse. Many people say WWII ended the Great Depression but not directly. When WWII started, many New Deal programs were frozen so more money could go the Military. There was a big debate going on after the end of WWII to reboot the New Deal but Republicans said no.
 
 The 2008 Recession was when the Government pumped massive amounts of money into the Market. Unemployment has gone down very slightly. After every Economic Crash, there is always a massive boom a few years later. This recovery we're in now is painfully sluggish.
 
 Now,how do we know that when unemployment went down under Reagan that it was just the economy acting in a natural way? Because in 3-5 years, unemployment dropped from 10.8 percent to 5.3 percent. That is one of the biggest and fastest drops in US Economic history. Many people also attribute the booming 90's to Reagan as well. Since Reagan's policies killed the USSR economically, we didn't have to spend as much money on the Military.
 
 Reagan also knew how to get the most out of the worker too. You see, Reagan didn't think that the existence of Unions was a bad thing, he embraced them. Hell, he was a leader of one. But he saw that they gained too much power and that the Unions were starting to be the useless weight. Just like how dangerous working conditions used to exist in the working place. Reagan cut Union powers and regulations making the Market have risk but have protection from stupid gambling.