https://www.debate.org/debates/All-minorities-living-in-America-during-Jim-Crow-era-laws-should-be-provided-monetary-compesnation./1/

TITLE: All minorities living in America during Jim Crow-era laws should be provided monetary compesnation.

CATEGORY: Politics

Observations
 
 1. Something only should be done by government if it proves a beneficial effect
 2. One should only be punished for something if one is responsible for it
  http://www.nydailynews.com... 
 
 Pro advocates reparations for 37% of the population without realizing the financial costs.
 
 Pro's whole case is the is/ought fallacy. He says reparations have been paid in the past, this does not mean they should be paid NOW. Just because something happened doesn't make it right.
 
  http://www.merriam-webster.com... 
 
 Should in the resolution means advisable. Therefore if reparations would have a largely negative effect vote Con.
 
 The United States Constitution explicitly bans ex post facto.
  https://www.law.cornell.edu... 
 "Latin for "from a thing done afterward." Ex post facto is most typically used to refer to a criminal law that applies retroactively, thereby criminalizing conduct that was legal when originally performed. Two clauses in the US Constitution prohibit ex post facto laws: Art 1, " 9 and Art. 1 " 10. see, e.g. Collins v. Youngblood, 497 US 37 (1990) and California Dep't of Corrections v. Morales, 514 US 499 (1995)."
 
 Reparations would be punishment for white americans for something they never did.
 Dictionary.com defines responsible as "answerable or accountable, as for something within one's power, control, or management". Obviously, if something is not within one's power one cannot be responsible for it.
 
 Using this moral framework, modern white people should not be forced to pay for crimes of their ancestors. Responsibility is not an inherited concept.
 
 Reparations would also lead to no benefit. Under my moral framework, wasting money and having no benefit is a reason to negate.
 
  http://townhall.com...  Note: The source talks about reparations for slavery, but facts are still the same.
 
 "A paper by economists Hoyt Bleakley and Joseph Ferrie traced the results of the Georgia land lottery down the generations. They found that, "one generation after the distribution of the Georgia land, sons of winners have no better adult outcomes (wealth, income, literacy) than the sons of non-winners, and winners" grandchildren do not have higher literacy or school attendance than non-winners" grandchildren.""
 
  http://www.marketwatch.com... 
 
 ""Economists at the University of Kentucky, University of Pittsburgh and Vanderbilt University wanted to answer a public policy question: What happens when individuals in financial trouble are given large lump sums? So they collected data from nearly 35,000 winners of up to $150,000 in Florida's Fantasy 5 lottery from 1993 to 2002, and cross-referenced this information with state bankruptcy records.
 Their findings, published last fall in The Review of Economics and Statistics, show that a big lottery score does little to reduce the likelihood of bankruptcy.""
 
 Therefore reparations would force people to pay for something not responsible for that would ultimately be a waste of money.
 
 Vote Con