https://www.debate.org/debates/The-U.S.-is-not-prepared-for-the-next-terrorist-attack-which-will-kill-or-injure-10-or-more-people/1/

TITLE: The U.S. is not prepared for the next terrorist attack which will kill or injure 10 or more people

CATEGORY: Politics

The U.S. is already prepared
  The reactionary events aren't the preparation. They are what creates the preparation. The United States has a shield that deters attacks that says: "If you attack us, we are going to either continue attacking or start attacking you back, and we will do so with hundredfold vengeance."
 My point is that the U.S. has that shield. I think teh intervention history of the United States is a preparatory shield of its own.
 
  What is prepared?
  So your first complaint about preparedness is that the SWAT and police equipment is worse than those of threatening attackers and some terrorists. Based on this, teachers getting armed with handguns and stuff like that won't do anything for preparedness. If the SWAT and police equipment is worse, then the handguns are definitely useless. Based on your first example, to be prepared every 'responsible adult' should carry military grade weapons. That's impossible. 
 And handguns are useless because handguns are worse than SWAT and police stuff. SWAT and police stuff in turn are worse than military grade and terrorist stuff, based on what you said in the first place.
 
  We can't possibly 'prepare' every single vulnerable part of the U.S.
  How many buildings do we have in the U.S.? My guess is that we have millions. There is about 10 million kilometers of land in the U.S. with people spread all over it. We literally do not have the resources or capital to fund 'preparing' every spot or even every facet of populated areas. Our economy would collapse. Congress will not pass such a stupid bill. 
 We are as prepared as we can get.
 
 So basically, the handgun suggestion doesn't make sense since the problem you were talking about is that of lacking weapon technology of SWAT and police when compared to that of military & terrorists.
 The U.S. already has a layter of preparation and I think it is enough.
 Plus, it's impossible to really be prepared.