https://www.debate.org/debates/Pit-bull-ownership-should-be-regulated-by-the-state./1/

TITLE: Pit bull ownership should be regulated by the state.

CATEGORY: Politics

"These animals were born and bred to be killing machines. We humans made them that way. selectively bred to have aggressive tendencies, powerful jaws, deadly tactics."
 
 I will now disprove your statements about the agressive tendencies aswell as the powerful jaws of the pitbull.
 
 aggressive tendencies:
 This is not true. The American Temperament Testing Society(ATTS) which provides uniform temperament testing has
 tested 870 American Pit Bull Terriers. 755 passed the test. This is a percentage of 86.8% (the average is 83%)
 Also the American Staffordshire Terrier and Staffordshire Terrier were tested and both breeds archieved a higher than average passing score. They did better than many other breeds including the Golden Retriever when tested for traits as stability, agression, friendliness and others.
 
 Even the American Veterinary Medical Association has stated that when it comes to pit bulls, "controlled studies have not identified this breed group as disproportionately dangerous."
 
 powerful jaws:
 The jaws of the pitbull are not that stong.
 Studies have shown that the pitbull has a lower bite force than for example the German Shepherd and the Rottweiler.
 
 "From 2005 to 2014 there were 326 dog related deaths in the United States. 206 of these deaths came at the jaws of a pit bull. That is 62.3%."
 
 The reason for this statistic is the popularity of this breed in the US, so it is logical that the frequency of attacks would correlate in this manner.
 In some areas of Canada for example the most fatal dog attacks are mainly attributed to sled dogs and Siberian Huskies, so this statistics you brougt up is of no weight if you dont look at the popularity of the different breeds.
 
 "This is madness people. The only people that support unregulated ownership of wild beasts such as this are mentally ill. they would sooner see a human life be snuffed out by one of these animals than any harm to come to it."
 
 First of all i dont think the term "wild beast" is appropriate, as pitbulls are domesticated animals.
 Second of all i would like to see you prove that "The only people that support unregulated ownership of wild beasts such as this are mentally ill" very much.
 "they would sooner see a human life be snuffed out by one of these animals than any harm to come to it." ... this is a silly generalisation and i honesty dont see the relevance this should have to your argument.
 
 "but this is not like owning a gun. this animal has a mind of its own and extreme care needs to be taken to properly train it, or one day it might very well snap and kill someone."
 
 I find it funny how you state that this isnt like ownig a gun and later on in your argumentation come to the conclusion that you should require a license to own a pitbull and should be treated as if you did the thing your pitbull did.
 Additionally I dont think training a dog not to "snap and kill someone" is that hard.
 Also this argumentation does not serve your racist thesis that only pitbulls should be regulated because the need to properly train your dog exists among all breeds.
 
 "at the end of the course if they still feel they are capable of controlling and owning this animal they can receive their permanent pit bull license. But only if they are willing to sign a document taking full responsibility for the animal in all civil and criminal proceedings. if the pit bull tears up someone's yard, it is the same as if you did it. if the pit bull kills some kid on a bike, it is the same as if you killed them yourself.
 If pit bull owners are half as competent as they claim to be this should not be a problem for them."
 
 I agree with you that the owner should take full responsibility in all civil and criminal proceedings but I think this should always be applied and not only on pitbulls or dogs for that matter.
 Also I dont think that this course you are describing should be a requirement to owning a pitbull, but it could maybe be a requirement if you already had one or multiple cases of you dog harming someone.
 
 Sources:
  https://www.avma.org... 
  http://www.care2.com... 
  http://atts.org... 
  http://madvilletimes.com... 
  http://dogs.lovetoknow.com...