https://www.debate.org/debates/If-rich-countries-eat-less-poor-countries-could-eat-more/1/

TITLE: If rich countries eat less, poor countries could eat more

CATEGORY: Politics

First, notice that I qualified my 4th point with (might). It depends on what kind of reduction, and by whom.
 
 "currently, we Americans eat too much"
 
 Clearly not every American can be eating too much. Some are obese, others are healthy, still others are anorexic.
 
 "If we ate less, we'd be less fat, and thus happier and more productive."
 
 You might be more productive, particularly if your work involves physical labor (which is rare for Americans anyway). But do you really believe that all the teenage girls that starve themselves are happier for their lower weight? More productive?
 
 It has been proven time and time again the foreign aid cannot alleviate poverty and hunger, though it might hold of a famine for a bit. In fact, foreign aid often hurts the recipient more than it helps, since the precious resources of a developing country are diverted from what the locals think is important, to what foreign beaurocrats think is important.
 
 In addition, you make the claim that eating "less" will reduce spending on food, but your argument only works (more happy/productive) if people are more healthy as well. In reality, being healthy has to do with a lot more than eating "less." One might take protein supplements, food substitutes etc (expensive products) vs buying cheap (and efficient) hamburgers from McD's. If he wishes to show a correlation between healthier eating and lower expenditure on food, my opponent has all his work ahead of him.
 
 As I talked about here ->  http://arg.umentum.com... , the social ideal for a healthy male is not a "thin" physique, but a muscular physique, which to acquire generally requires a high calorie diet. If certain males were to disregard this social norm and go on diets, they would soon find their ability to attract mates greatly reduced, and thus be further saddened and unproductive.
 
 There are some Americans who could stand to eat less, there are others who might benefit from eating more. What they don't need is extra pressure either way that results from this ridiculous notion of American consumption being responsible for all the world's evils.