https://www.debate.org/debates/The-presidency-of-barack-obama/2/

TITLE: The presidency of barack obama

CATEGORY: Politics

Yes, unemployment stood at a very high rate and went even higher when Obama took office. During Obamas first year as president the unemployment hit 10 percent. Presidents always face opposition from the other party because that was how our founding fathers designed the country to run. If a president never faced opposition then it would turn into a one party system for the 4 years that he has been president. Free market healthcare would greatly benefit even more Americans. He should have implemented a system where competition drives prices down not the government. The reason why Obama did not keep all of his promises is because he only said them to get elected. Same reason why bush got elected because he promised to have a non interventionist foreign policy but instead he had us in 2 wars 3 years into his first term. Now one war was a war we needed to fight but Iraq was not our fight. The reason we went to Iraq was for oil. Despite popular belief Obama did not end the Iraq war. The Iraq war was ended by George W Bush. At the end of Bushes second term a deal known as the "status of forces agreement" was reached between Iraqi and US officials which cites that US forces would be out of Iraqi cities by June 30th 2009 and all US forces would leave Iraq by December 31st 2011. But even republicans don't know that bush ended the Iraq war because they always blame Obama for Al Qaeda taking Iraqi cities under their control.
  http://en.wikipedia.org... 
  http://reason.com... 
 I'm not going to argue against him passing wall street and credit card reform because that is part of what he actually did right. His renewable energy investments have largely failed. Most of the businesses he invested the money into are out of business now.
  http://blog.heritage.org... 
 I agree with parts of obamacare. I agree that people should not be able to be denied converage for pre existing conditions. Republicans haven't proposed any alternatives to obamacare until today. Bobby Jindal proposed an alternative to obamacare. I am not yet sure if I support his plan because I have not yet had time to really dig thru it.
  http://www.washingtonpost.com... 
 Obamacare is not working well because people are being kicked off their plans because they dont cover what obama wants covered. People should be able to choose what they want covered based on their needs. I don't think 80 year old men need maternity care covered in their healthcare plan.
 Yes, Obama did save the auto industry but now that the auto industry is back Chrysler is now owned by Fiat. I do believe overall the auto industry bailouts were a success.
 But if Americans really wanted change they would have voted for Ron Paul.