https://www.debate.org/debates/Should-the-U.S.-adopt-Donald-Trumps-Proposed-Muslim-Ban/1/

TITLE: Should the U.S. adopt Donald Trump's Proposed Muslim Ban?

CATEGORY: Politics

Con: 
  1st Amendment 
  "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof." 
  Which applies to American citizens under the Constitution. 
  Jimmy Carter used an executive order in which Iranians were banned from entering the United States during the hostage crisis in the 1970's.  
   http://www.frontpagemag.com...  
  Here was a part of his speech on the matter. 
  -The events of the last few days have revealed a new and significant dimension in this matter. The militants controlling the Embassy have stated they are willing to turn the hostages over to the Government of Iran, but the Government has refused to take custody of the American hostages. This lays bare the full responsibility of the Ayatollah Khomeini and the Revolutionary Council for the continued illegal and outrageous holding of the innocent hostages. The Iranian Government can no longer escape full responsibility by hiding behind the militants at the Embassy. 
  Focus on the last sentence.  
  "The Iranian Government can no longer escape full responsibility by hiding behind the militants at the Embassy." 
  That's what Islamic fundamentalists are doing. They are hiding behind the religious protection of Western societies, and it is a clever tactic. And...it's working. In only 16 years, Islamists have taken down the World Trade Centers, hit the Pentagon, caused a war in Syria killing hundreds of thousands, causing a European "Migrant Crisis", bombed a Belgium airport, bombed the London train system, caused a "rape jihad" throughout Europe, killed 130 in a bomb spree and mass shooting in Paris at the Bataclan Theatre, a mass shooting in San Bernardino, the Fort Hood shooting of American soldiers by an Islamist who said Islam allowed him no loyalty to the West, etc. 
  In 2015, 450 of 452 suicide bombers were Islamic. That's a clue. If 450 of 452 of rapists had rainbow wigs and wore 1970's shorty shorts, if you see someone matching that description, run! 
   http://www.timesofisrael.com...  
   http://www.examiner.com...  
  * 
  Liberal society wants to adhere to the idea that all people are the same. What if they aren't?  
  In Sweden there are now 55 Islamic no go zones, meaning they police themselves by Sharia Law because the police are not crszy enough to go in. Thet are not just assimilating. 
   https://swedenreport.org...  
  If Islam is a danger to democratic societies, is it not okay to say,"Hey, we don't take flight passengers from anywhere without approved identification for matters of national security?" And if the flight is from the Middle East, it will be under a "Code Orange" security verification.  
  The perpetraters are Muslims, thus common sense tells us to target Muslims. And this is not the fault of the West. It's the fault of Islam itself. It has to own its serious human rights violations and evolve towards democratic thinking, or be left out in the cold by its own doing. It has own its own beliefs and practices. 
  In Islamic countries Sharia Law is the law of the land per Islam. Sharia is completely inconsistant and incompatable with democracy. Thus the responsibility is on them, not us. It is their job to think in a democraatic dimension, or be excluded from democracy by default. Islam has nothing to do with democracy and per the Quran is commanded by "God" himself to kill us, espionage us, and conquer us even by methods like Takiya, Maruna, Tawriya, and Kitman, etc. Thus, we owe them nothing by default of their own ideology being a threat to national security and democracy.  
   https://en.m.wikipedia.org...  
  Takiyya- 
  It is described as purposeful disassimalation. It is pretending to be peaceful to wait for reinforcements. It even goes to the extinct of pretending to be us or like us in order to destroy us. This was how the 9/11 hijackers went undetected. They went to bars and strip clubs which is forbidden in Islam, unless...you are trying to kill or destroy fitnah(unbelief in Islam). Lying is the fundamental construct of the religion towards the infidel. (That'd be us.) 
   http://thefactsaboutislam.blogspot.com...  
  By default they cancel out any sense of Liberal sympathy from the West. That is on THEM. 
  Have you forgotten? God, I hope not, or we WILL see it again...I watched it happen live. I puked twice. Here it is if you have the stones to watch it. 
  (Video) 
   http://youtu.be...  
  * 
  Con: 
  -According to a FBI report, 94% of terror attacks in the United States since 1980 were committed by non-Muslims. 
  Non sequitor. Most Americans are not Muslims. It's like saying 100% of people giving birth are female.  
  * 
  How would it be carried out? 
  If you are from a list of Islamic nations, you can't come. Period. No European, Australian, North American, etc ID, no go. Our leaders can go to them, send an email, or call their leaders if they need to communicate. Is it perfect? Nope. But it is good.