https://www.debate.org/debates/All-drugs-should-be-Legalized/7/

TITLE: All drugs should be Legalized

CATEGORY: Society

Thank you for your response, I will now begin to address the issues with your statements. 
 
 
  "Taking hard drugs that many people will take such as heroin or cocaine will be comparable to suicide."
 
  
 Although this may be true, that does not mean it should be illegal. As a matter of fact, taking these drugs does not guarantee that your life will be demolished even though it is likely. Nicotine and Alcoholic substances are currently legal in many nations across the globe and you can over dose while consuming alcohol. When consuming nicotine some evidence suggests that your brain will end up requiring this substance to function efficiently (addiction). Not to mention, according to the definition you presented, this is NOT suicide because you are not intentionally taking your life when consuming drugs. Non the less, this is not a reason as to why some drugs should be illegal. I don't understand how it could be.
 
  "While drug use is not necessarily suicide, it is comparable to such because eventually, drugs will kill you weather it be lung cancer or overdose."
 
  This is not suicide and it does not matter if it is comparable to suicide. Accidentally killing yourself is NOT the equivalent of purposely killing yourself (suicide). Not to mention, the use of drugs does not cause lung cancer unless they are smoked. With this logic cigarettes should also be illegal and currently they are not. I am unsure what to state in order to combat this because it is not a realistic reason to make "some drugs" illegal and other drugs legal. 
 
 
  "My point in making this is that the United States has legalized suicide, but not legalized assisted suicide, so in doing this the United States will contradict its own laws."
  The legalization of assisted suicide and suicide has absolutely nothing to with drug use and you have not provided any sufficient reason as to why these two things are related to drug use. People can overdose on drugs that have been legalized for medical purposes and in doing so would not make you a criminal, even if it did, that would have nothing to do with this debate. It is also not considered assisted suicide. Who would be considered responsible for this assisted suicide? The drug that did it? Would the drug be sent to prison for killing someone? Haha