https://www.debate.org/debates/Abortion-debate-anyone/1/

TITLE: Abortion debate, anyone?

CATEGORY: Politics


 Thank you for your response.
 
 To address your refutation of my first contention, I will state that a baby is not physically part of a woman's body, but this does not take away from the idea that she should decide what she can do with her child. I would hope you agree with the fact that, most of the time, parents have the baby's best interest in mind. Circumstances where having an abortion is moral would be such as; the life of the baby at risk, or the life of the mother is at risk. Should a mother be forced to die to protect the life of her child? She should not, and for more than one reason. Only the mother and family know what kind of world the baby would come into. If she were to die during childbirth, this could force the father either to come under economic tension as he alone might not be able to afford it. As well as the factor of development. A baby should have a mother to grow up with and the mother plays the most important role in a child's upbringing. Her not being there would hinder the development of the baby substantially in unknown ways.
 
 To address your refutation of my second contention, a mother is actually more likely to die during childbirth than having an abortion and unseen consequences for the family would follow. Look to my first response.
 
 Response to your refutation of my third contention, I state those could happen to the mother. Are you saying the mother, and the baby should have to take physical abuse for x amount of portion of their lives? And that its okay for a mother not to be able to provide for her child? It is not. Mind you, if not given an abortion, the mother is much more likely to be abused by her spouse. This could branch off to the child as well, as many abuse cases do. The baby should not have to be introduced to a world a physical violence.
 
 4. I really only included that because it a heavy hitting side on the neg, and used to just because I thought you might, that's all.
 
 5. This response can be gathered from pretty much the response I had to your refutation of my third contention.
 
 
 Thank you