https://www.debate.org/debates/Senator-Barack-Obama-is-a-better-pick-for-President-then-Senator-Hillary-Clinton./1/

TITLE: Senator Barack Obama is a better pick for President then Senator Hillary Clinton.

CATEGORY: Politics

My opponent has offered nocunter arguments other than all of my claims are baseless. I will now move to prove him wrong.
 
 1. Yes, Senator Obama did have some public image due to his keynote address in 2004. However, he wasn't a household name and his vting record was unknown as ashis personal history. Hillary Clinton on the other hand was on the public stage for 8 years as First Lady and then again when she ran for Senate in 2000. Her election recieve national attention. Senator Obama's election recieved local attention.
 
 2. Yes, the Republicans will wait until the general election to attack the Democratic nominee, however, the othe candidates in the primary have to attack now, such as in the case of Willie Horton brought up by Al Gore in 1988. Nothing substntve has been brought up against Senator Obama. Also since the point of running for political office is to win, I think less baggage gives less for people to attack therefore a better candidate.
 
 3. Yes,hindsight is always 20-20 but we aren't debating past Presidents we're debating better Democratic nominees in 2008. Winning more states means you have a wider base of support meaning in a general election you have more peopl to work to get you elected. Winning more states makes you a better candidate.
 
 4. As of right now Senator Obama has the most superdelegates and probably will continue short of a major disaster. Superdelegates are party officials who's only criterion to vote is for who they think will make the strongest nominee. If you have a majority of superdelegates, that means that you are viewed as the strongest candidate.
 
 5. Senator Obama is more bipartisan. If you look at his Illinois and U.S. Senate careers you will see he offered a umer of bills with support and actuall being cosigned by Republicans. Many of these bill ended corruption in campaign financing, put thousands of kids on healthcare insurance, and reformed the death penalty.
 
 6. Senator Obama has shown change. He wants to end the War in Iraq and focus on the larger War on Terror. He wants to conduct diplomacy with both our friends and enemies. He wants to give a tax cut to the middle class and end it for the richest 1%. He wants to offer programs to make college more affordable. None of these things have been done in the last 8 years. So yes he does want to bring about change from the last 8 years.
 
 7. Also I was wrong in the popular vote. Even if you count Florida, Michigan, all the other primaries and the caucuses Senator Obama is abou 400,000 votes ahead. Why is this important? Because it shows he has popular support among tos in the primaries which translates into votes in the general election.
 
 Conclusion: Obviously these all prove that Senator Obama is the better candidate. I have a few questions of my own. How can Senator Clinton be the better candidate with fewer states won,by saying that caucus states don't count, by at the beginning of the campaign agreeing Florida nd Michigan don't count then flip flopping later on when it suited her, by being in the hole in campaign finance, by losing the popular vote, and not having the majority of the pledged delegates.