https://www.debate.org/debates/We-are-not-alone./1/

TITLE: We are not alone.

CATEGORY: Science

The Universe holds uncountable planets and stars. There are seemingly infinite realms and worlds, and galaxies and solar systems. The cosmos is addressed with many questions: Questions of origin, questions of fate, questions of destiny among many others. The vast space of our cosmos holds some of the most fantastic mysteries of all time. One question shall be answered as the debate progresses: Are we alone or are we just a single species out of uncountable more? My stand shall be this: We are not alone. We are joined by seemingly infinite other lifeforms.
 Earth is our home. Earth is our planet. And yet, we have been grounded for too long. It is time to look up at the stars and proclaim, "We are not alone." It is time to admit that out of many, we are one. It is time to realize that we are not alone. It is time to recognize the existence of life many miles away. There may not be life on the dark side of the moon or on the surface of Venus, but somewhere out there, there is life.
 As we sit in front of our computers, there is a civil war raging on a planet in a nearby galaxy. As we read a crime novel, a chancellor if giving his inaugural address in a realm billions of light-years away. Right now, uncountable different lifeforms are enjoying their life, as millions are enduring war and poverty. The aliens may not have cultures similar to ours. They may not have governments and families and marriages, but I know this: They are intelligent.
 There are over sixty billion planets in our galaxy alone that have conditions that could possibly support life. With billions of galaxies in the observable Universe, it is reasonable to assume that there are so many planets that could support life that we don't have a word for the number that will describe them. I recognize that not all of these planets will have intelligent life, but there may be unintelligent life as well: microscopic beings.
 When I say, "We are not alone," I am not only talking about intelligent life that resembles humans. I am talking about all sorts of life. There may be animal-like life, plant-like life or even life that we cannot classify according to our system.
 
 I believe I have made my point. I will quickly review what I said in a few short sentences: There are uncountable planets and stars. Why couldn't and wouldn't there be life on some of these planets? There may not be intelligent life everywhere, but when you search thoroughly, you shall find it.