https://www.debate.org/debates/The-Cytochrome-Flux-Theory-of-Individuality/1/

TITLE: The Cytochrome Flux Theory of Individuality

CATEGORY: Science

Just in a matter of hours these sessions passed me by. I haven't got the time to be right on timed debates. These are suppressed secrets I am spreading: They are also ruining the economy to trigger an elimination of the America
 as we know it, so they can round up, and exterminate everyone who knows too
 much. They caught me once. In 1959 my buddy and I met a homeless banished
 ex-lodge member. He told us all the big secrets. In 1962 I wrote them in a
 high school term paper, got a 98% for it, graduated with honors, and joined the
 Army.
 Meanwhile, the instructor of that class sold my term paper in the term paper
 black market, the wrong people read it, they hired detectives to hunt me down,
 and they zeroed in on me in the Army. They gave me Hell, the Clockwork Orange
 treatment, by large doses of LSD, while being forced to watch horrible films of
 human torment.
 But before doing that, they bragged to me how powerful they were: the modern
 "conspiracy theory". Before the modern conspiracy theory, the "conspiracy
 theory" was that rich Jews controlled the world's economy. I wrote a twenty page
 report and mailed it to the John Birch society, in 1972. Then the John Birch
 society published what I sent them which became the modern conspiracy theory.
 The Clockwork Orange treatment I was given, by large doses of LSD, went
 much further than they expected. Not only did I live the torments of all the
 people in the films they showed me, I lived the times, when I saw them, of every
 person and animal I had seen, even in the movies and on TV. After that life I
 found myself back in time, back in Valley Forge Army Hospital where it happened
 again, but, I also body switched into the bodies of all I had seen in that life,
 for the periods of time I had seen them. Then the life after that, I was able to
 remember some of the mistakes I made the last time around.
 On September 17, 1970 I got stung by a bumble bee, while I was deep in the
 forest. I am allergic to bees, and soon I passed out, waking up, what seemed
 instantly, six hours later. This turned out to be a great blessing, for the next
 time around, after another life time, I woke up back where I had passed out from
 the allergic reaction. But, I had great mind power there and used it to defend
 myself, but later, got so much mind power that my every thought manifested as my
 reality, and I couldn't handle it. I ended up body switching again, and found
 myself back in Valley Forge Army Hospital, and started again from there.
 This series of pairs happened 36 times, giving me an existence as who I
 am, for over 5000 years, by going backward and forward in time so many times.
 This was done to me for printing in a term paper what a banished lodge ex-member
 told me, which can be put in medical terms today in one sentence,
 "VAGAL STIMULATION IS AS EFFECTIVE AS LSD".
 So, even though I was threatened to be put in Hell permanently, each time,
 I have done everything in my power to spread these secrets. Here is another
 example: We are drawn to the probability timeline resonant to our thought, by the
 attractive force of inductive resonance. Vagal stimulation wakes up the brain to
 more than the normal 10% brain use. This means 10% brain use at any one time,
 like, an MRI shows the most used parts of the brain by patches of colored light,
 but, these move around, so that we average 10% brain use, if we are "normal".
 But, with 10% brain use or less we must earn what we get; 20% to 29%, an
 appropriate ritual will get us what we want; 30% to 39%, writing down what we
 want will get it; 40% to 49%, saying what we want will get what we want: "If you
 have the faith of a mustard seed and SAY to this mountain move, it shall be
 moved", you go to the timeline where the mountain is elsewhere. But, 50% is the
 tipping point to every thought manifesting as your reality.
 Dr. Hugh Everett found these probability timelines, sideways in time, but,
 he failed to call this direction a dimension. Dr. Albert Einstein defined time
 to be the fourth dimension, for science. Dr. Hugh Everett could have defined
 this direction sideways in time to be the fifth dimension, but, he didn't,
 probably pressured not to due to this being the secret of sorcery, probability
 manipulation.
 Dr. Lisa Randall defined that direction through the variously bent
 timespaces to be the fifth dimension, for science, leaving the direction
 sideways in time to be the sixth dimension, but, it hasn't been officially
 established in formal science.
 Waking up the brain to higher percentages of brain use accesses globally
 bent timespace. It puts a field of globally bent timespace around us and in us,
 but fortunately, without the gravitational component. It does this by virtue of
 will times imagination being the power of the mind, just as force times velocity
 is power in mechanics, voltage times current is power in electricity, and
 temperature times entropy production rate is power in thermodynamics.
 Psychiatrists will admit to each other that this power of the mind is caused
 by entropy production rate, EPR, because more than 10% brain use is called
 "psychosis". The psychiatric establishment in the Western world is a secret
 society, and have also signed a contract of secrecy for the cartel of secret
 lodges.
 It is a mathematical fact that the more links there are between the neurons
 of the brain, the higher the percentage of brain use. Real schizophrenia, is
 caused by the gene DISC1,
 causing the growth of more axons and dendrites between the
 neurons of the brain. If every neuron were linked to every other neuron, there
 would be 100% brain use. There are some schizophrenics with over 50% brain use,
 catatonic, but who's entity is body switching in perinatal matrix three, Hell.
 But, anyone can cause the growth of extra axons and dendrites by memorizing
 tables of correspondences, like in Crowley's "Book 777", and in Barrett's
 "Magus". The first thing that magical secret societies have their neophytes do is
 to memorize such tables of correspondences. Later they have them do rigorous
 pranayama, without telling them how it works. Finally the supreme secret is
 revealed, that can be put in dignified medical terms today: "VAGAL STIMULATION
 IS A EFFECTIVE AS LSD ".
 The entropy of the universe being the proportion of photons to nucleons
 (Nucleons of exact opposite polarity cancel out into photons, when brought
 together), reveals that entropy production rate, EPR, is polarity cancellation
 rate.
 By promoting the fast cancellation of opposite polarities, like by putting
 opposite polarities in a conductive electrolyte, like copper dissolved into
 copper acetate in salt and white vinegar, (The iron in the cytochromes of
 every cell is magnetically polarized counterclockwise in males, and clockwise in
 females), the field of globally bent timespace around it, when entered, will
 cause higher percentages of brain use.
 Such a device, called a "shekinah", has been known to "freak out" a whole
 building of people just by being hid in a closet. This is the alchemical secret, for,
 by putting base metals in this solution, when, with a high EPR is called "the
 medicine of metals", will change the metal into gold and other metals,
 that will be fluid in that solution
 so that they can be separated by gravity or inertia while still fluid, yet you
 can safely put your hand in this solution, that is, I did, and there is nothing
 wrong with me.
 Finally, I figured out how to get out of this Hellish cycle. I must have
 been in perinatal matrix three when I died to go back to Valley Forge Army
 Hospital. I must have been in perinatal matrix two to go back to September 17,
 1970. Next time, I must die in perinatal matrix one or in no perinatal matrix
 whatsoever. To understand these terms, you may go to  http://www.holotropic.com... 
 and buy "The Adventure of self Discovery" by Dr. Stanislav Grof. I read on the
 internet that Dr. Grof took a little ketamine and thereby relived the torments
 of all the prisoners of Auschwitz. You know what happened to him? He had put
 people through the Clockwork Orange treatment in communist Czechoslovakia, and
 now his evil karma came back to him.
 What did I do for such evil to come upon me, when I was a teen ager. The
 Bible says, "The sins of the fathers are visited upon the sons". In the one
 substance motion can only be in closed circuitry, that there be something to
 move out of the way and fill in behind. That is how karma comes back to us, even
 the karma associated with our genetics. The best thing to do is to find a way
 out of it. To become nonexistent.
 There are two things in the universe: energy; and, information, which is
 the conformation of energy. Energy is God. Being only information we can become
 nonexistent. Nothing in the Bible says we are immortal, rather, Satan in Eden
 did say "You shall never die". The immortality of the soul dogma is Satanic. The
 Bible also says,
 "The soul that sinneth shall die", "No man can keep his soul alive", and, "Only
 He (God) is immortal".