https://www.debate.org/debates/Canada-is-not-a-legitimate-country/1/

TITLE: Canada is not a legitimate country

CATEGORY: Politics

My opponent's first argument was about how Canada "rejected democracy and... self-government" by not joining the American Revolution, but the reason they didn't join is because the British Parliament took SPECIAL MEASURES to appease the French population of Quebec into not joining the revolution (1). As a result, the Canadians had no real reason to join the American Revolution. Why shed blood when it's not really needed?
 
 Next he went on to state that "...the legitimate foundations of legitimate statehood [are] democracy and self-government."
 I completely disagree with this point. That is simply the foundation of AMERICAN statehood. The definition of a "country" is an area of land that is controlled by its own government (2), and Canada achieved that status on July 1, 1867 (3). Just because Canada still pays respects to the British Crown doesn't mean it isn't a sovereign country.
 
 Then he stated that "the culture of English-Canadians is indistinguishable form any regional variation of American culture, as the Britsih empire is no more, as free trade and open borders is the stated objective of both countries,".
 First of all, anyone who thinks Canadian culture is indistinguishable from American culture obviously has never been to Canada before. And second of all, if open-borders is a sign of illegitimacy, then the European Union makes all of the countries in Europe illegitimate, as well.
 
 Lastly my opponent stated that "[Canada] serves no legitimate purpous."
 No purpose other than to govern its people... the same purpose that pretty much every other country exists for...
 
 Canada is a perfectly legitimate country. There is no proof to show that it does not meet the definition of a country, and it is no more or less "useful" than any other country.
 
 SOURCES:
 (1)  http://www.mcgill.ca... 
 (2)  http://www.merriam-webster.com... 
 (3)  http://www.historyofnations.net...